# CA1153097A - Rotating ultrasonic scanner

## Details

* Date: 1978-03-03
* Inventor: Commonwealth of Australia
* Beneficiary: Jack Jellins, George Kossoff
## Other patents

### Backwards
 * 
### Forward
 * 
## Abstract

Abstract

 ABSTRACT      An ultrasonic scanner for use in echoscopy has a linearly scanned transducer arrangement, for transmitting beams of ultrasonic energy into an object and receiving reflected ultrasonic echoes from the object.  The transducer arrangement is rotated about an axis passing through the centre or one end of the linear scan, at a rotation rate which is slow compared with the linear scanning rate.  In this way, sectional ultrasonic scans of the object are obtainable.  The linear scanning may be mechanical scanning, or may be effected by electronic switching of an array of transducer elements.



ABSTRACT      An ultrasonic scanner for use in echoscopy has a linearly scanned transducer arrangement, for transmitting beams of ultrasonic energy into an object and receiving reflected ultrasonic echoes from the object.  The transducer arrangement is rotated about an axis passing through the centre or one end of the linear scan, at a rotation rate which is slow compared with the linear scanning rate.  In this way, sectional ultrasonic scans of the object are obtainable.  The linear scanning may be mechanical scanning, or may be effected by electronic switching of an array of transducer elements.

~ -~S3~)~3~  FIELD OF THE INVENTION    This  invention  relates  to  -the  technique  of ultrasonic echoscopy  of objects  and in particular to apparatus whereby a more complete and useful examination 5 of the object may be effected.  It is particularly,  but not solely,  directed to the use of echoscopy in medical diagnostic examination.  BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION   Ultrasonic echoscopy provides information about an 10 examined object which may be displayed in the form of an ultrasonic echogram.   Such an  echogram consists  of a display   of   acoustic  impedance   discon~inuities  or reflecting surfaces in the object.   It is obtained by directing a short pulse of ultrasonic energy,  typically 15 in the  1-30 M~z  frequency range,   into the  examined object where any acoustic impedance discontinuities in the object reflect and return some of the energy in the form of an echo.  This echo is received,  converted into an electric signal and displayed as an echogram on a 20 cathode ray oscilloscope, a film, a chart or the like.          The   echogram   may   constitute   either   a   one dimensional or a two dimensional representation and in both cases the information is contained in the position and  magnitude  of  the  echo  displayed.   In  a  one 25 dimensional display,  the position along a base line is used to indicate the distance to the reflecting surface whilst the magnitude of  the  echo  is  displayed,   for example,  as a deflection of the base line ("A mode") or as an intensity change ("B mode").  In a two dimensional 30 display,   the position along  a base  line is  used to indicate the distance to the reflecting surface as in a one dimensional display,  and the direction of the base line is used to represent the direction of propagation of the acoustic energy.  Th~ two dimensional display is 35 obtained by changing this direction of propagation of the acoustic energy and by instituting a similar,  but not necessarily identical, movement of the base line of ~.   .   the display.  The magnitude of the echo is displayed as for  a  one  dimensional  display  (for  example,   as  a deflection of the base line or as an intensity change).    The technique of ultrasonic echoscopy is used in 5 medical  diagnosis  to  obtain  information  about  the anatomy of patients.  This application of echoscopy is now well known.  It has been described,  for example, by D.E. Robinson in Proceedings of the Institution of Radio and Electronics Engineers Australia,  Vol.  31,  No. 11, 10 pages 385-392, November 1970, in his paper entitled "The Application of Ultrasound  in Medical  Diagnosis".   As pointed out in that article, ultrasonic echoscopy may be used to produce displays resembling anatomical cross-sections which have proved clinically useful when the 15 desired information concerns physical dimensions, shapes of  organs  or  structures  or  the  like.   Ultrasonic echography has proved to be of particular value as a diagnostic aid in medical examinations of the abdomen and pregnant uterus,  eyes,  breasts,  brains,   lungs, 20 kidneys,  livers and hearts,  these being areas of soft tissue with little bone and air.       In general,  ultrasonic echoscopy is considered to complement other techniques to provide a more complete picture   of   the   patient's   condition.    However, 25 particularly in pregnancies, ultrasonic echoscopy may be useful in place of X-rays where the latter may not give sufficient information or may be dangerous.       In medical use,   a pulse of ultrasonic energy is transmitted into a patient  in  a known direction  and 30 echoes are received from reflectlng surfaces within the body. The time delay between a transmitted pulse and the received  echo  depends  on  the  distance  from  the transmitter to the reflecting surface,  and the distance information so obtained may be displayed in a suitable 35 way  for  interpretation  and  clinical  use  as  a  one-dimensional  range  reading  or  as  a  two-dimensiorlal cross-section as previously described.   .~                                      ~ ~ ~3a9~                   In many ultrasonic B mode investigations it is an advantage to scan quickly over the desired area~  ~uick scanning may be achieved  by mechanical means,  such as by linearly translating the transducer over the desired 5 length or by oscillating the transducer over the desired angle,   the  speed  of  movement  being  determined  by considerations such as the desired line density of the ultrasonic inf~rmation.  Alternatively, either linear or oscillatory  scanning  may  be  achieved  by  elec~ronic 10 means,  using a switched linear array transducer or a sectoring phased array transducer~        DISCLOSURE OF THE PRESENT INVENTIONIt is an object of tne presen-t invention to provide an improved means for and method of scanning an area of 15 an object under examination by ultrasonic echoscopy~         In accordance with one aspect of this invention, apparatus for use in ultrasonic echoscopic examination of an object comprises: a~ a transducer for transmitting beams of ultrasonic energy into said object in a predetermined direction relative to said transducer;b) means for linearly scanning said beams; and c) means for sweeping said linearly scanned beams about an axis passing through the centre or one end of said linear scan, at a rate which is substantially slower than the rate of linearly scanning of said beams, whereby a series of angularly displaced sections of said object are sequentially sc~nned.      30      According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a method of ultrasonic examination of an object which comprises the steps of linearly scanning beams of ultrasonic energy directed into said object, and receiving echoes of pulses reflected along said 35 beams  by  acoustic  impedance  discontinuities  in  said object,   said method being characterised in that said linearly scanned beams are rotated about an axis at the ~3~9~7 centre of the scan or at one end of the scan, at a rate which is substantially slower than the linearly scanning rate, whereby a series of angularly displaced sections of said object are sequentially scanned. Thus, using the present invention, it is possible to perform ultrasonic examination of an object utilising a single ~ransducer which is either translated or oscillated in a plane to provide a cross-sectional image in that plane. Alternatively, a linear array of 10 transducer  elements  may  be  activated  to  provide  a cross-sectional image of the object in the said plane.With either form of apparatus,   the scanned plane is rotated during the examination of the object so as to sequentially generate a series of sections.  Thus,  the 15 rotational movement  of  the  scanning  plane  of  the transducer  arrangement  is  effective  to  achieve  the visualisation  over  a volume  within  the  object  under examination.      The rotation of the transducer can conveniently be 20 achieved by mechanical means.   Alternatively,   a two-dimensional multi-element transducer may be employed, in which case the rotation can be effected by electrical or electronic switching.  The centre of rotation can be at the centre of the scanning plane (thus giving a series 25 of diametric sections),   at the edge of the scanning plane (giving a series of radial sections), outside the s~anning plane (so as to permit the examination of an annular volume), or at any required location within the scanning plane.     The present invention is particularly useful in ultrasonic echoscopy where it is necessary to scan a volume having substantially circular symmetry - such as the female breast.     Where a single transducer is used in the present 35 invention, it may be of the fixed focus or annular array focused type.   In use,   the present invention may be ~L~S~ 7 adapted for the examination of an object with either the contact  method  (using  direct  or  through-a-membrane contact between the transducer with the object) or with the water coupling method in which the transducer is 5 immersed  in  a  water  tank.   The  transducer  may  be positioned as desired to provide horizontal, vertical or any other inclined cross-sectional images of the object.      The examination technique in accordance with the present invention is particularly appropriate when only 10 a few landmarks are available to identify the examined area. For instance, in the ultrasonic examination of the breast, the nipple provides the only accurate anatomical landmark. Thus a series of scanned diametrical or radial sections  through  the  breast with  the  nipple  at  the 15 centre  or  at  the  edge  of  the  scan will  provide  an ultrasonic examination of the whole organ.  Because the nipple is portrayed in every scan, accuxate localisation of all visualised detail is obtainable.      In cases where the scanning technique employed is 20 such as to provide simple scanning of the object only, the scanning may also embody a tilting motion of the plane of the scan.  Tilting can be used, for example, to change the direction of enhancement and shadowing -that is  obtained  from  localised  areas  of  tissues  with 25 different attenuation, or to examine different posterior tissues.     The present invention may also be used in compound ultrasonic scanning of an object.DESCRIPTION OF THE ~RAWINGS     ~igure 1 is a perspective view of a mechanically scanned, mechanically rotated, embodiment of the present invention, positioned within a wa-ter tank, and used to scan the female breast.     Figure 2 illustrates, schema-tically, four well 35 known different constructions of ultrasonic transducer arrays.   ~`                     ~3~7 DETAILED D~SCRTPTION OF ILLUSTR~TRD F.MBODIMENT    In  the  embodiment  illustrated in  Figure  1,   an ultrasonic transducer 1 is contained in a water tank and is directed upwardly therein so as to transmit pulses of 5 ultrasonic energy  along the beam  axis  5.   Means  are provided  to  mechanically  translate  the  transducer reciprocally in the direction shown by the double arrow A, at a relatively quick rate of (for example) one fifth of a  second for  a traverse  along the  length  of  the 10 carriage 3,  which defines the cross-sectional plane of the image.  ~y way of example,  a reciprocating linear scanner  of  the  type  disclosed  in  Australian  patent specification No.  35579/78 may be used -to mechanically translate the transducer 1.      Means are provided to rotate the carriage 3, as shown  by  arrow  ~,   underneath  the  breast  6  to  be examined,   the  breast  being  immersed  in  the  water contained  in  tank  2.   The  speed of  rotation  of  the carriage 3 is typically of the order of 1~0 degrees per 20 minute,  although this may be varied as determi.ned by factors  such  as  the  requirement  to  provide  cross-sectional  visualisations  of  the object  that  have  a certain angular control.  Rotation of the carriage 3 may be achieved by use of an electric motor geared to or in 25 other suitable dr.iving relationship with the carriage 3.          Preferably, means are provided within the tank 2 to move  the  transducer  and  carriage  assembly  in  the directions of the arrows "X" and "Y" so that the centre of rotation of the carriage can be positioned as desired 30 (for example, at the nipple of breast 6). Suitable means may  also  be  provided  to  adjust  the  transduce.r  and carriage assembly in the direction of the arrow "Z" to position the transducer at the required distance from the breast.  Furthermore,  carriage 3 may be pivotally 35 mounted  on  the  supporting  structure  4,   with  means provided to tilt the carriage 3 as shown by the arrow "C". U.S. patent specification No. 4,094,306 discloses ;                 ~3~ ~ a  suitable  supporting  mechanism  whereby  tilting  and movement in the "x", "Y" and "z" directions with respect to the object may be effected.    Modifications of this form of apparatus are,  of 5 course,  possible.  For example, as foreshadowed earlier in this specification,  the single element transducer 1 may be replaced by an annular array transducer as shown in Figure 2(a).   This form of transducer comprises a central  disc  11  and  a  number  of  separate  co-axial 10 annuli,  of which elernent 14 is a typical example.  By introducing delays in the reception of the ultrasonic signals  by  these  elements,   dynamic  focusing  of  the ultrasonic beam can be achieved.      Dynamic focusing,  as is well known in the field of 15 echoscopy, provides optimal resolution along the line of sight. An advantage of the use of this type of transducer in the apparatus of Figure 1 is that the means to adjust the carriage assembly in the "Z"direction is unnecessary.As also foreshadowed earlier in this description, the reciprocating linear scanner component of the apparatus illustrated in Figure 1 will be unnecessary if, instead of a single focus transducer 1 or the annular array structure of Figure 2~a), a transducer 25 having a linear array structure as illustrated in Figure 
2(b) is used.  Linear array transducers,  which are also well known in echoscopy,   comprise a large number of narrow rectangular elements such as the typical element 15 of Figure 2(b).  These elements are arranged in a row 30 and are electrically sequenced to produce either sector or linear scans.  Focusing may also be introduced on the reception phase.       Another  form  of  the  present invention was  also foreshadowed earlier in this description, namely the use 35 of  a  two-dimensional  multi-element  transducer  and electronic  switching  to  effect  the  scanning  of  the ~5~ method of the pxesent invention.  The type of transducer used  for  such  electronic  scanning  is,   as  will  be appreciated by those skilled in this art,  a transducex of the type illustrated in Figure 2(c). As shown in this 5 figure, the two-dimensional array structuxe 13 comprises a large number of individual transducer elements,  such as the typical element 16.  These elements are arranged in rows and columns and scanning planes may be obtained at an angle across the structure,   and in any desired 10 direction, by appropriate electrical sequencing.While the present invention has been described with reference  to one particular  embodiment,   it  will be generally understood by those skilled in the art that various  changes may  be made  and equivalents  may be 15 substituted for elements thereof without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention.

THE EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION IN WHICH AN EXCLUSIVEPROPERTY OR PRIVILEGE IS CLAIMED ARE DEFINED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
1.        Apparatus for performing ultrasonic echoscopic examination of an object, comprising:a)   a transducer for transmitting beams of ultrasonic energy into said object in a predetermined direction relative to said transducer;b)   means for linearly scanning said beams; and c)   means for sweeping said linearly scanned beams about an axis passing through the centre or one end of said linear scan,  at a rate which is substantially slower than the rate of linearly scanning of said beams, whereby  a  series  of  angularly  displaced sections of said object are sequentially scanned. 

  
2.      Apparatus as defined in claim 1, in which said transducer transmits beams in a fixed direction and is mounted on  a carriage  for reciprocal  linear movement along said carriage to effect said linear scan, and said means for  sweeping comprises  means for rotating said carriage. 

  
3.        Apparatus  as  defined  in  claim  2,   further characterised in that said means for linearly scanning and said means for sweeping comprise a single electric motor. 

  
4.        Apparatus as defined in claim 2 or claim 3, including means to tilt said carriage. 

  
5.        Apparatus as defined in claim 1,  claim 2 or claim 3,  in which  said transducer  is a fixed focus transducer. 

  
6.        Apparatus as defined in claim 1,  claim 2 or claim 3,   in which said transducer is an annular array focused transducer. 

  
7.        Apparatus as defined in claim 1, in which said transducer is a linear array transducer which generates linearly   scanned  beams   of   ultrasonic   energy  by electronic  switching  and  said  means  for  sweeping comprises means for mechanically rotating said linear array transducer. 

  
8.        Apparatus as defined in claim 1, in which said transducer  is  a  two-dimensional  array  of  transducer elements,   which  generates  linearly  scanned beams  by electronic  switching,   and  said  means  for  sweeping comprises  additional  switching  means  associated  with said transducer. 

  
9.        Apparatus as defined in claim 2, including  a  housing filled  with  a  liquid coupling medium,  said transducer being contained within said housing. 

  
10.       Apparatus as defined in claim 9, in which said housing has a substantially horizontal upper surface, an aperture  in  said  surface,  and  a  flexible  coupling membrane covering said aperture in a liquid-tight seal. 

  
11.       A  method  of  ultrasonic  examination  of  an object which comprises the steps of linearly scanning beams of ultrasonic energy directed into said object, and receiving echoes of pulses reflected along said beams  by  acoustic  impedance  discontinuities  in  said object,  said method being characterised in that said linearly scanned beams are rotated about an axis at the centre of the scan or at one end of the scan,  at a rate which is substantially slower than the linearly scanning rate,  whereby a series of angularly displaced sections of said object are sequentially scanned.