# EP0090567A1 - EP0090567A1 - Ultrasonic sector-scan probe 
        - Google Patents

## Details

* Date: 1982-03-20
* Inventor: Fujitsu Ltd
* Beneficiary: Hirohide Miwa, Hajime Hayashi, Takaki Shimura, Tadahiko Yanashima, Kenji Kawabe, Atsuo Iida
## Other patents

### Backwards
 * US3881164A
 *DE2639246A1
 *DE2727256A1
 *FR2367289A1
 *DE2818915A1
 *DE3008553A1
 *US4281550A
### Forward
 * EP0376396A2
 *EP0468506A2
 *WO2000008459A1
 *WO2011027270A1
## Abstract

Abstract

An ultrasonic-sector-scan probe comprises at least an array (1) consisting of a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments a window (4) for transmitting and receiving ultrasonic waves and an ultrasonic wave propagation medium filled in a front room (10) defined between the array (1) and the window (4). A group (3) of some ultrasonic transducer segments are selectively driven as an aperture (3) and ultrasonic waves emitted therefrom are converged into a beam for transmission and reception. By partly or entirely changing the segments in the group (3) with the ones outside the group the scan line is shifted to a new angle, a member under test contacted with the window (4) on the outside thereof is sector-scanned by the ultrasonic beam. The array (1) is arranged so that scanning lines by every group may intersect at one point in the window (4) or in its vicinty for sector scan. And an acoustic lens (5) is provided in the window or in its vicinity so that the ultrasonic beam may be converged almost over the measuring depth range of the member under test with/without phase control of the segments in the group. Furthermore, the array can be arranged multidimensionally (Fig. 10) or in plural linear arrays so that the scanning lines by every group may intersect substantially at one point in the window (4) or in its vicinity for sector scan, thereby performing sector scan of at least two sections and/or three-dimensional sector scan.



An ultrasonic-sector-scan probe comprises at least an array (1) consisting of a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments a window (4) for transmitting and receiving ultrasonic waves and an ultrasonic wave propagation medium filled in a front room (10) defined between the array (1) and the window (4). A group (3) of some ultrasonic transducer segments are selectively driven as an aperture (3) and ultrasonic waves emitted therefrom are converged into a beam for transmission and reception. By partly or entirely changing the segments in the group (3) with the ones outside the group the scan line is shifted to a new angle, a member under test contacted with the window (4) on the outside thereof is sector-scanned by the ultrasonic beam. The array (1) is arranged so that scanning lines by every group may intersect at one point in the window (4) or in its vicinty for sector scan. And an acoustic lens (5) is provided in the window or in its vicinity so that the ultrasonic beam may be converged almost over the measuring depth range of the member under test with/without phase control of the segments in the group. Furthermore, the array can be arranged multidimensionally (Fig. 10) or in plural linear arrays so that the scanning lines by every group may intersect substantially at one point in the window (4) or in its vicinity for sector scan, thereby performing sector scan of at least two sections and/or three-dimensional sector scan.

[0001]  The present invention relates to measuring apparatus which emits an ultrasonic beam to a medium under test and utilizes the reflected wave therefrom in medical diagnosis, nondestructive test and so forth and, more particularly, to an ultrasonic sector-scan probe which emits an ultrasonic beam fanwise from its portion held in contact with the medium under test for observing its inside.
  [0002]  The sector scan of an ultrasonic beam has the advantage that the inside of a living tissue, for example, can be observed over a wide field from one small contact portion. Especially, for observing a heart or the like, the sector scan is exclusively employed because an appreciable area of the heart can be observed by contacting a probe with a narrow portion between ribs for avoiding their obstacle.
  [0003]  The sector-scan techniques heretofore employed are roughly divided into a mechanical scan method which drives a focused ultrasonic beam to scan fanwise by mechanically wobbling or rotating a disc-shaped or rectangular concave piezoelectric transducer; and a phased array type electronic scan method in which a number of narrow rectangular-shaped piezoelectric segments are arrayed, the temporal phases for driving the elements for transmission are controlled and received signals are also controlled in their temporal phases and added together, thereby to electronically deflect the directions of transmission and reception.
  [0004]  The mechanical scan method is highly advantageous in that it is simple, inexpensive and excellent in beam performances, such as the beam directivity pattern, intensity and frequency spectrum and the direction/magnitude of a side lobe, and in that these beam performaces do not vary with the angle of deflection. With this method, however, owing to mechanical inertia, the scanning must be effected in a sequential order and cannot be jumped unsequentially to a desired scanning line.
  [0005]  In contrast thereto, the phased array type electronic scan method permits such arbitrarily jumpping scan but necessitates the complex and bulky circuit arrangements for phase control, and hence is very expensive. And it is inferior in the beam performances to the mechanical scan method and the abovesaid performance of the beam undergo substantial changes with the angle of deflection. Furthermore, this method possesses the defect that a grating side lobe resulting from an array construction exerts a bad influence upon measurement.
  [0006]  In Fig. 1, 3-1 shows a system proposed by ALOKA LIMITED (Japanese Utility Model Application PUbliscation NO. 41267/77 and 3-2 shows a system proposed by HOFFMAN la ROCHE LTD.) for obviating the aforementioned drawbacks. In Fig. 1 reference numeral 1 indicates a linearly arrayed ultrasonic transducer segments on a circular arc; 2 desingnates the intersection point of scanning lines; 3-1 and 3-2 identify apertures consisted of segment group; 4 donotes an acoustic window; and 10 represents a front room. In this system, the scanning is performed by shifting the group location in the arrayed segments. The linear array of transducer segments well known in the abdomen diagnosis is rearranged on an arcuate concave circular arc and the focussing point of the beam provided by the aperture comes to the center of the circular arc in the case of 3-1, which is set on the contacting window of the probe with the member under test or in its vicinity. The beam scanning is effected by simple change-over control of the segments instead of the phase control, so that this system is simple and inexpensive. Besides, although the grating lobe cannot be removed, the beam performances are excellent and have no deflection angle dependence. In this system,however, the piezoelectric segments forming the transducer array 1 and the window 4 which contacts the member under test, such as the human body or the like, for transmitting thereinto ultrasonic waves and receiving therefrom reflected waves, must be spaced apart a equal distance to the radius of curvature of the circular arc, and the space defined by the array 1 and the window 4 therebetween (which space will hereinafter be referred to as the front room 10) must be filled up with a medium that conducts ultrasonic waves. Furthermore, in order to avoid the influence of what is called multiple reflection that arises from re-reflection and reradiation of reflected waves between the window 4 or the skin surface and the piezoelectric array, it is necessary to make substantially equal the propagation time of ultrasonic waves in the front room 10 and the propagation time of ultrasonic waves in a range to be measured in the member under test. According to the above- mentioned prior art, in the case where water is used as the medium filling up the front room 10, since the speeds of sound in water and the living tissue are nearly equal to each other, the path length in the front room, that is, the radius of curvature of the circular arc of the concave array must be almost the same as the range to be measured (about 18 cm in the case of a heart or the like). Accordingly, the probe used is very` bulky. The overall angle of scanning in the front room 10 (equal to the angle to the center of curvature of the circular arc) becomes equal to the overall angle of scanning in the living body (90° in the case of a heart or the like). In consequence, the angle of the front end of the probe outside including its container and a sound absorber, reaches almost 100°, making it difficult to incline the direction of the center of the fan-wise scanning between the ribs. Moreover, the beam pattern is defined only by the aperture defined by the group 3-1; namely, the beam diameter decreases from the one of the aperture formed by the segment group 3-1, towards the center of curvature of the circular arc and is minimum at the center of curvature and then increases in the form of point-symmetry with respect to the center of curvature. At the deepest range in the member under test, the beam diameter is substantially equal to the diameter of the aperture. Accordingly, the degree of convergence of the beam is very low. To obviate such a defect, it has been proposed by HOFFMAN la ROCHE LTD. to perform focussing by the aperture segment group 3-2 in Fig. 1 electronically (Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 36942/81). The focus point of the scanning beam formed by the aperture of segment group 3-2 is not limited specifically to the vicinity of the window 4 unlike in the case of the scanning beam formed by the aperture of segment group 3-1. By controlling the phases of driving for each segment in the group and the phases of reception, the convergence of the beam is electronically made weak and the focus point, which is in the case of 3-1 geometrically set to the center of curvature of the circular arc , can be moved to a farther position, for instance, at a position two-thirds of a maximum depth of measurement (indicated by O1), thereby resulting in better beam convergence through out the range. As will be appreciated from Fig. 1, however, in the system proposed by ALOKA LIMITED since the beam diameter at the window 4 is sufficiently reduced, the width of the window 4 can be made small, whereas in the system proposed by HOFFMAN la ROCHE LTD. the beam diameter at the window 4 is large and the width of the window 4 con- not be made small. This is disadvantageous for the sector scan which is mostly used for diagnosing a heart from a narrow gap between the ribs.
  [0007]  In practice, there exist, in addition to the beam shown in Fig. 1 which can be handled by acousto-optics, a diffusive beam which is to be superimposed on the abovesaid beam and linearly spreads out at a vertex angle of 2 times 0.6 X/a radian, where a is the half width of an aperture of the group and λ is the wave-length of the ultrasonic waves used. This is common to both systems described above in respect of Fig. 1 and the width of this beam is larger than or substantially equal to the width of the acousto-optical beam in the focal and farther regions, but no consideration is paid to this beam in the both patents.
  [0008]  In the HOFFMAN and ROCHE Patent there are further proposed a method of permitting scanning at a one-half pitch of the segment pitch and-a method of beam focusing in a perpendicular direction to the sector scan plane; since these methods are well-known in the conventional linear array of probe for disgnosing the abdomen, no further description will be given hereafter. In this gazette is further proposed to use, as the medium in the front room, a medium in which the sound speed is lower than in water. This makes it possible to obviate the defect that the probe proposed in the aforementioned Japanese Utility Model Gazette No. 41267/77 is very bulky. But the media specified in that gazette are some biological liquids and silicone rubber, the sound speed of which are about 1000 m/sec. Since the speed of sound in water and the living body is approximately 1500 m/sec, the path length in the front room is about 2/3 of the case in an embodiment described in the Japanese utility model gazette, and the size of the probe and the angle of scan can be reduced to substantially 2/3 those in the utility model gazette. From the practical point of view, however, the measurement depth range is 18 cm and the overall angle of scanning is 90°, for instance, in diagnosing a heart; but, with the probe by HOFFMAN la ROCHE LIMITED the path length in the front room 10 can be 12 cm and the overall angle of scanning is about 60', but the probe, including the sound absorber and the container wall, is still too large for parctical use. This is supposed to be one reason for which the patent by HOFFMAN la ROCHE LIMITED has not been put to practical use.
  [0009]  Fig. 2 illustrates the state of applying an ultrasonic fan-shaped probe in a tilted condition. Reference numeral 1 indicates a linear array ; 2 designates the intersection of scanning lines; 7 identifies a sound absorber and container; 8 denotes the surface of the body (or the skin surface); and 9 represents an internal organ near the skin surface. In view of the length of the existing probe, the 12 cm path length in the front room 10 is sufficient for practical use but the 60° overall angle of scanning in the front room 10 is too large. That is, as shown in Fig. 2, in order to observe the organ 9 (for example, the right atrium or the right ventricle of the heart) near the skin surface over a wide visual field, it is desirable to tilt the fan-shaped probe, so that the most deflected scan line almost coincides with the skin surface 8 as shown. In this case, the center line t of the probe forms an angle 62 with the skin surface 8 and the angle of scanning in the front room is θ1 on either side of the center line ℓ. Accordingly, an marginal angle for tilting, a with respect to the skin surface 8 is θ2 - 81. In practice, there exists an additional angle to θ1 consisting of the sound absorber 7, the container and the marginal room around the fan-shaped space in the front room 10. Consequently, it is necessary that 82 - θ1 be larger than 20°. In the case where 2θ2 = 90° and 2θ1 = 60°, the marginal angle, a for tilting is θ2 - θ1 = 15°, which is insufficient for practical use.
  [0010]  Furthermore, since with the prior-art ultrasonic sector-scan probes, only one tomographical section is obtained, no accurate geometrical orientation to an organ can be effected. For instance, the heart always pulsates and also shifts and rotates three-dimensionally as a whole owing to breathing. Accordingly, only with the observation of one section, it is unclear which part of the heart is scanned. To solve this problem, it is customary in the prior art to make observations of desired sections in sequence with changing the posture of the probe with respect to the examinee's body and turning the probe in 90° around its axis. In this case, since the probe is manually rotated, it is entirely difficult to retain geometrical accuracy in each change of the posture of the probe.
  [0011]  It is considered that this problem could be solved by mechanically holding the probe in a fixed posture; but this prevents breathing and hence is undersirable, and it has not been employed at all.
  [0012]  Another solution heretofore proposed is to mechanically turn the probe by 90 around its axis while manually holding its outer container in a fixed posture with respect to the examinee's body. But this method is disadvantageous in that the probe used is bulky, and in that measurement errors are still large because it is difficult to manually hold the probe container in a completely fixed posture, because different sections are not concurrently observed and because much time is needed for rotating the probe.
  [0013]  Apart from the present invention, the present inventor has proposed a method of observing two sections simultaneously with two probes while at the same time detecting their relative positions with angle detectors mounted on the joints of their linkage arm, thereby to enable three-dimensional but accurate observations.
  [0014]  In this case, however, two probes are used and they must contact with the examinee's body at two places. Generally, in the cases of middle-aged or younger persons, two contact areas effective for the examination of the heart can be found but, as for aged persons, only one effective contact area can be found in many cases and this succesful cases share 40 to 50% of all aged examinees.
  [0015]  In view of the above, there is a strong demand for the realization of a system of electronically switching two or more different sections at high speed or observing them completely simultaneously through one contact area, but such a system has not been reported yet.
  [0016]  Usually the electonic sector scan is peformed through using the phased array. For this sector scan, there has also been proposed by the present inventor to arrange two phased arrays in laminated layers for scanning perpendicular sections so that each sector scan plane perpendicularly intersects, for instance. In this case, the individual sections can be observed completely simultaneously be using different frequencies for them.
  [0017]  However, the fabrication of such a double layer phased array is complex and the phase control circuit is also more complex and expensive.
  [0018]  It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a sector-scan probe the window of which is small even if a transducer array is a circular arc-shaped liner array, and is capable of providing a narrow beam in the material under test.
  [0019]  Another object of the present invention is to provide an electronic sector-scan probe which is small in the width of the window, small in beam diameter and excellent in various beam performance as compared with the conventional phased array type system and which permits jump scanning and simple and inexpensive scanning control.
  [0020]  Another object of the present invention is to provide a sector-scan probe in which the width of the window and the path length t1 in the front room can be reduced and which is therefore small in size and can be tilted sufficiently over a wide angular range.
  [0021]  Another object of the present invention is to provide a sector-scan probe in which a plurality of linear or planar transducer are provided in a front room with a single window so that the scanning the lines formed by any segment group may intersect substantially at one point near the window, by which it is possible to form a plurality of different sector-scan planes while holding the probe in a certain posture at one contract area with the member under test.
  [0022]  Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a three-dimensional sector-scan probe which is accurate, easy to handle and inexpensive.
  [0023]  In accordance with some objects of the present invention, the ultrasonic sector-scan probe is devised, which consists of an array comprising a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments, a window for transmitting and receiving ultrasonic waves, and an ultrasonic propagation medium filled in a front room defined between the array and the window. Some plural adjacent transducer segments in the array are selectively driven as one group and ultrasonic waves emitted therefrom are formed into a beam for transmission into the member held in contact with the window on the outside thereof. Then reflected waves from the member are again received by the group through the window. By partly or entirely changing the selected segments of the group with other segments in the array, the group location is shifted to produce new scan line. The segments are arrayed so that scanning lines formed by any selectively grouped segments may all intersect substantially at one point in the window or in its vicinity to perform sector scan in the member, and an acoustic lens is provided in the window or in its vicinity so that an ultrasonic beam focusing zone may be formed almost over the measuring depth range member under test.
  [0024]  In accordance with other objects of the present invention, the ultrasonic three-dimensional sector-scan probe is devised, which consists of arrays comprising a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments, a window for transmitting and receiving ultrasonic waves, and an ultrasonic propagation medium filled in a front room defined between the arrays and the window. Some transducer segments in the array are grouped and selectively activated as an aperture and ultrasonic waves emitted therefrom are formed into a beam for transmission to the material held in contact with the window on the outside thereof and then reflected waves from the subject are received by the group through the window. By partly or entirely changing the selected segments of the group with other segments in the array, the group location in the array is shifted to produce new scan line. The segments are arrayed multidimensionally or in plural liner arrays; so that scanning.lines formed by any group may all intersect substantially at one point in the window or in its vicinity to perform sector scan in the member. The plural arrays or multidimensional array provide sector scan of at least two sections and/or three-dimensional sector scan.
  [0025]  Reference is made, by way of expample,to the accompanying drawings, in which:-
   Fig. 1 is a diagram schematically showing prior arts of ultrasonic sector-scan probe based on circular arc linear array; Fig. 2 is a diagram schematically showing the state in which the ultrasonic sector-scan probe is applied in a tilted posture; Fig. 3 is a diagram illustrating an embodiment of the ultrasonic sector-scan probe of the present invention; Fig. 4 is a diagram explaning how the window can be made smaller according to the embodiment of Fig. 3; Fig. 5 is a diagram illustrating another embodiment of the ultrasonic sector-scan probe of the present invention; Fig. 6 is a diagram explaning how the window can be made smaller according to the embodiment of Fig. 5; Figs. 7 and 8 are diagrams explaning the effect of sound speed of a medium in the front room. Fig. 9 is a diagram showing the plural arrays, their scan planes and the intersection of scanning lines at the window in another embodiment of the present invention which employs plural linear arrays; Fig. 10 is a diagram showing the mutually perpendicular two scan planes and the intersection of scanning lines at the window in another embodiment of the present invention which employs two perpendicularly intersecting linear arrays; Fig. 11 is a diagram showing the three dimensional scanning and the intersection of scanning lines at the window in another embodiment of the present invention in which segments are arrayed in a matrix form on a spherical concaved surface; Fig. 12 is a diagram illustrating a specific example of the construction of the probe depicted in Fig. 9; Fig. 13 is a diagram illustrating a specific example of the structure of the transducer array in a probe of the present invention which employs laminated linear arrays; Fig. 14 is a diagram illustrating a specific example of the structure of the arrays in a probe of the present invention which employs two perpendicularly intersecting double layer linear arrays; and Figs. 15 and 16 are diagrams illustrating specific examples of the structure of the array in the case of performing aperture control in the probe of the present invention. 
 [0026]  Fig. 3 illustrates an embodiment of the ultrasonic sector-scan probe of the present invention; Fig. 5 illustrates another embodiment of the present invention; and Fig. 7 is explanatory of the effect of the sound speed of the medium in the from room of the ultrasonic sector-scan probe. Reference numeral 1 indicates a linear array of ultrasonic transducer segments arrayed on a circular arc; 2 desingates the intersection point of scanning lines; 3 identifies an aperture consisting of segment group; 4 denotes a window; 5 represents a converging lens; 6 shows a diverging . lens; 7 refers to a sound absorber; and 10 signifies a front room.
  [0027]  A description will be given, with reference to Fig. 3, of an embodiment of the present invention which uses an acoustic acoustic lens. The linear array 1 is constructed with narrow rectangular-shaped piezoelectric segments arranged side by side on a circular arc. A suitable number of segments are selected as one group in thelinear array and driven. The ultrasonic waves emitted therefrom generate a converging beam. The segment group 3 is selected as an aperture and has an opening width 2a. The farther segment from the center of the group is operated in earlier temporal phases than the nearer segment to th center for transmission - and reception. By this temporal phase control for each segment in the group, the aperture operate as if the radius of curvature is reduced. By such additional electronic convergence of the ultrasonic waves, the focus point is formed at a point 02 in the front room 10 closer than the intersection point 2 of scanning lines which is the geometrical center of curvature of a circular arc. In Figs. 3 to 7, the window 4 is placed at the position of the intersection 2 of the scanning lines and the converging lens 5 is provided in the window 4. The converging lens 5 can be used as the window 4, itself too. When the material of the converging lens 5 is silicone rubber or the like, the sound speed of which is lower than the medium surrounding the lens 5, it corresponds to an optical lens of the refractive index, which is larger than 1. Accordingly, a convex lens is needed for converging a beam. Conversely, in the case where the converging lens 5 is made of polystyrene or the like, the sound speed of which is higher than the surrounding medium, the converging lens 5 is of concave. By the converging lens 5, the diverging ultrasonic beam beyond the focus 02 can be focused again at a suitable position 03 in the member under test, for example, at a point 2/3 a maximum measurement depth. As the point 02 approaches the intersection point 2 of the scanning lines, the beam width can be made smaller but the design of the converging lens 5 becomes difficult, so that the point 02 has an appropriate value. It will be evident from comparison of the beam width in Fig. 3 with the-one of 3-2 in Fig. 1, that the beam width at the window 4, that is, at the converging lens 5, in Fig. 3 is smaller than the one of 3-2 in Fig. 1 and a final focus point is formed at a same point to the one in Fig. 1 consequently, the beam width in the member under test near the window 4 is also smaller. Furthermore, as described previously, a diffusive beam, which diverges linearly as travelling from the center of the aperture with the diverging angle of above two times 0.6 λ/a radian, where X is the wavelength of the ultrasonic waves, is superimposed to the abovesaid acousto-optical beam, though not shown, The curvature of the circular arc and the convergence by electronic temporal phase control have no effect on this diffusive beam. Accordingly, in both cases of Figs. 1 and 3, once the aperture width 2a is determined, substantially the same diffusive beam is produced. The window 4 shown in Fig. 1 has no effect on this diffusive beam but, in Fig. 3, the converging lens 5 functions to effectively converge the diffusive beams, too, and the diameter of the diffusive beam in the member under test can be reduced.
  [0028]  Fig. 4 is explaining how the window 4 can be made smaller according to the present invention Fig. 4 corresponds to the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 3. In the absence of the converging lens 5, ultrasonic waves emitted from the aperture 3 and converging on the point 01 in the subject have a beam width D1 in the window 4 as shown but, in the case where the converging lens 5 is used according to the present invention, the ultrasonic waves from the aperture 3 are once focused on the point 02 in the front room 10 and then converged again by the converging lens 5 on the point 03, so that the beam width D2 in the window 4 can be smaller than in the case where the converging lens 5 is not employed.
  [0029]  Referring now to Fig. 5, another embodiment of the present invention will be described which employs an acoustic lens. In contrast to the embodiment of Fig. 3, a diverging lens 6 provided in the window 4 or as the window itself. By focussing the beam from the aperture (segment group) 3 on a position 04 not so apart from the intersection point 2 of scanning lines, . the beam width in the window 4 is reduced. In this case, since the beam having passed through the position 04 diverges to become wider, the focus point must be shifted by the diverging lens 6 to a farther position 05, for example, to a position 2/3 of a maximum measurement depth. By this arrangement, the beam width in the window 4 can be made smaller than in the case of 3-2 in Fig. 1 and the beam width before and after the converging point 05 in the member under test can also be reduced. In this case, however, the diffusive beam is further diverged by the diverging lens to have a larger beam width in the member in contrast to the embodiment of Fig. 3. To avoid this, it is necessary to prepare a sufficiently large aperture 2a to make the diver- gence angle small in the initial designe.
  [0030]  Fig. 6 is explaning how the window can be made smaller according to the present invention. Fig. 6 corresponds to the embodiment of Fig. 5. In Fig. 6, when the diverging lens 6 is not used, the ultarasonic waves emitted from the aperture 3 and focussing on the point 01 in the member under test have the beam width D1 as shown. On the other hand, when the diverging lens 6 is used according to the present invention, the ultrasonic waves from the aperture 3 are diverged by the diverging lens 6 and focused on a point 06 in the member, so that the beam width D3 in the window 4 can be made smaller than in the case where the diverging lens 6 is not employed.
  [0031]  Also in the system of Fig. 1 in which the beam focussing point agrees with the position of the window 4 (proposed by ALOKA LIMITED), it is theoretically possible to carry into practice the present invention described above in respect of Figs. 3 and 5 by providing a diverging lens immediately inside the focus point or a converging lens immediately outside the focus; but it is somewhat difficult to design the lenses.
  [0032]  It is evident that in the case where the scanning lines intersect each other in the window and the beam width is small, the width of the window can be minimized. It is also possible to employ conventional dynamic focussing control for reception in combination with the present invention, when a much smaller beam width can be obtained.
  [0033]  As described above, according to the embodiments of Figs. 3 and 5, the width of the window can be made smaller and the beam width can also be made narrower over the entire range of the measurement depth. But these embodiments are disadvantageous in that they require the front room because the scanning lines of the conventional linear array are rearranged in circular arc to intersect for the sector scan. Turning next to Fig. 7, the effect of the sound speed of the medium in the front room will be described. For preventing multiple reflection at the window and the skin surface, the following condition is necessary:
   ℓ1/v1 ≧ ℓ2/v2 where ℓ1 is the distance between the window 4 and the array 1, v1 is the sound speed of the medium in the fron room 10, ℓ2 is a maximum measurement depth of the member held in contact with the window 4 on the outside thereof and v2 is the sound speed in the member under test. In the case of examination of a heart, ℓ2 = 18 cm, so that when v1 = v2, ℓ1 also becomes 18 cm, resulting the probe becoming too long to use. Furthermore, as shown in Fig. 8, a scanning line incident on the window 4 at an incident angle θ1 referring the normal of the window 4 is refracted at the window 4 when v1 ≠ v2, and emerges out of the window 4 at an angle 62. In this case, according to the Snell's law, the following relation holds: sinθ1/sinθ2 = v1/v2  If v1 ≒ v , θ1 ≒ θ2. In the examination of the heart or the like, it is desirable that 2θ2 = 90°, and consequently 2θ1 ≒ 90°. Accordingly, the aforementioned tilting margin, a = θ2 - θ1 = 0, is unsatisfactory. This can be solved by using a medium in the front room, the sound speed v1 of which is equal to or lower than that v2 in the member under test. In a living body, the sound speed v2 is 1538 m/sec, so that if the sound speed v1 is 1000 m/sec is used as in the system proposed by HOFFMAN la ROCHE LIMITED, then ℓ1 = 12 cm and 2θ1 = 60°; but these values are still insufficient for practical use. It is desired that v1/v2 ≦ 1/2. Fortunately, fluorinated oils have the sound speed like 700 m/sec, 527 m/sec and 590 m/sec, and are commercially available, for instance, under the trade names F048, F072 and F075 by 3M Inc., and the use of these oils satisfies the condition v1/v2 ≦ 1/2. Accordingly, assuming that v1 = 590 m/sec, v1/v2 = 0.38. This example is shown in Fig. 8, in which ℓ1 = 6.84 cm, 2θ1 = 32° and a = θ2 - 6, = 29°. From comparison of Fig. 7 showing an example of v1 ≒ v2 and Fig. 8, it is seen that the probe is reduced in size and the tilting margin is increased. 
 [0034]  It is self-evident by analogy from ordinary optics that the present invention described previously in respect of Figs. 3 and 5 is applicable to the case of vl < v2, too. This can be achieved by changing the design constant of the lens. In the case of v1 < v21 a special lens need not always be used but the window may also be made to serve as the diverging lens or as the converging lens by forming it concave or convex. While in the foregoing explanation, a single arc-shaped linear array is used, but the plural arc-shaped linear arrays and/or spherically shaped matrix planer array can be used similarly.
  [0035]  Figs. 9 to 12 are schematic diagrams showing the relationships of the arrays, scanning planes, the intersection of scanning lines and the window in other embodiments of the present invention in which the array is formed multidimensionally or in plural linear arrays and scanning lines from the segment group in the arrays are all made to intersect substantially at one point in the window or in its vicinity : for performing the sctor scan of at least two sections and/or three-dimensional sector scan. Fig. 9 shows an example using three linear arrays. Fig. 10 shows an example using two perpendicularly intersecting linear arrays and Fig. 11 shows an example using a matrix planar array. Fig. 12 is a sectional view illustrating the probe structure of Fig. 9. Reference numeral 1 indicates a window; 2 to 5 designate linear arrays; 6 identifies a matrix planer array; 13 denotes a sound absorber; and 14 represents a front room.
  [0036]  In Fig. 9, the three arc-shaped linear arrays 2, 3 and 4 are arranged on a sphere and substantially in parallel so that the center of curvature of the arc may lie at the window 1. The curvature of the arc can be slightly rearranged as required. In Fig. 9, the plane of sector scan formed by the array 2 is set to perpendicularly intersect the plane of the window 1. The planes of sector scan formed by the arrays 3 and 4 pass through the center point O of the window 1 not perpendicularly but obliquely thereto. Accordingly, the arrays 3 and 4 appear to be parallel to each other in Fig. 9 but, in order that the planes of sector scan formed by the arrays 3 and 4 must be spaced equally apart from the plane formed by the array 2, it is necessary to arrange the arrays 3 and 4 not in exact parallelism but in some deformed parallelism owing to the abovesaid oblique intersection. The linear arrays 2, 3 and 4 can be understood that a conventional linear array used for diagnosing the abdomen is slightly curved to form an circular arc, and each consists of a number of narrow rectangular-shaped piazo- electric PZT segments. Their operating method is the same as that of ordinary linear arrays. By selectively driving n adjacent elements as a group, an aperture is formed for beam convergence, and the beam center becomes a scanning line. The shift of the scanning line is performed by changing the positions of the group in the array:: For example, by driving n + 1 elements, a half pitch deviated scanning line can be obtained, or by controlling the timing for transmission and reception accordingly to the off-center distance of the segment in the group, the focus can be shifted electronically from the focus geometrically determined or dynamically controlled along the depth. In this case, however, if the phase cotrol is not effected, the focus point is defined by the geometrical arrangement at the center of curvature of the circular arc array. The convergence of the beam in the direction perpendicular to the scanning plane can be implemented by bending each rectangular-shaped segment to be concave towards the emitting direction, or placing in front of the array a columnar lens bent to conform to the arc of the linear array. Thus the techniques for ordinary linear arrays can be utilized. In Fig. 9 the center of curvature of the arc of each linear array is shown to coincide with the intersection point of the scanning lines and the intersection point is shown to coincide with the center 0 of the window 1, but it need not always be so.
  [0037]  Fig. 12 is a sectional view taken in the plane passing the center 0 of the window 1 and the center of the array 2 in Fig. 9, illustrating a specific probe structure.
  [0038]  The probe is formed to include circuit connections to the segments and the front room 14 having a substantially quadrangular pyramidal shape with its top end portion defined by the window 1. On the bottom of the quadrangular pyramid of the front room 14 are placed the linear arrays 2, 3 and 4. In practice, the interior surface of the front room 14, except the window 1, is entirely covered with or formed by the sound absorber 13. The front room 14 is filled with water, castor oil, liquid paraffin, fluorine oil or the like to form an ultrasonic wave propagating passage between the arrays 2, 3 and 4 and the window 1. The planes of sector scan formed by the arrays 2, 3 and 4 in the front room 14 pass through the center 0 of the window 1 and extend out therefrom point-symmetrically, forming three different planes of sector scan in the memeber under test. When the arrays 2, 3 and 4 are driven at the same frequency, they must be time shared. But if the arrays are operated at different frequencies, for example, 3.5 MHz for the array 2, 2.25 MHz for the array 3 and 1.5 MHz for the array 4, or at different CHIRP modulations, then the three arrays 2, 3 and 4 can be driven concurrently by discriminating received signals by filters, and the three planes can be scanned at the same time.
  [0039]  In Fig. 10, the arrays 2 and 5 are arranged so that their scan planes may perpendicularly intersect each other, and so that all the scanning lines may intersect in the neighborhood of the window 1 or at the point 0 on the window 1. At the intersecting portion of the arrays 2 and 5 the piezoelectric elements are not rectangular-shaped but are arranged in a matrix form; they are connected in the vertical direction to form a part of the array 2 on one occasion and, on the other occasion, they are connected in the lateral direction to form a part of the array 5. The arrays 2 and 5 are driven in different temporal phases so that when the matrix in their central intersecting portion are being activated as a part of either one of the arrays, the other array is driven in the other portion. The other arrangements, operation and scanning are identical with those in Fig. 9 and the planes of sector scan perpendicularly intersecting in the member under test can similarly be scanned in time shared mode or completely simultaneously.
  [0040]  In Fig. 11, the matrix planer array 6 is made up of segments arranged in a matrix form on a spherical plane having its center of curvature at the point O. In this case, since the segments in the vicinity of a given position on the X- and Y-axis can be selected as a group to a form a square, substantially circular of the like aperture of a suitable opening, free three-dimensional sector scan can be performed.
  [0041]  Figs. 13 and 14 illustrate specific examples of a doublelayer array structure according to the present invention. Fig. 13 shows an example of a doublelayer laminated linear array and Fig. 14 an example employing two perpendicularly intersecting doublelayer linear arrays. Reference numerals 7, 8 and 10 indicate linear arrays; 71, 72,-73 designate piezo-electric segments; 8' identifies a piezo-electric plate; 80 denotes a grounding electrode; 81, 82, 83..... represent signal electrodes; 11 shows reflector; 12 refers to a non- polarised plate; and 13 signifies a sound absorber. In Fig. 13 the arrays 7 and 8 are assembled into a double layer laminated structure forming circular arc linear arrays. The array 7 comprises the piezoelectric segments 71, 72, 73, ... made of PZT (zircon-lead titanate) of a center frequency 3.5 MHz. The array 8 has the organic piezoelectric plate 8' made of PVDF (polyvinylidene fluoride) and its center frequency is adjusted to 2.25 MHz, for instance. The organic piezoelectric plate 8' has the signal electrodes 81, 82, 83, ... deposited over the area of its one side (on the front side in Fig. 13) and the grounding electrode 80 deposited over the entire area of the other side (on the back side in Fig. 13). The piezoelectric segments 71, 72, 73, ... also each have thereon a signal electrode and a grounding electrode. Since the PZT is a ceramics material and inflexible, the piezoelectric segments 71, 72, 73, ... are produced one by one as independent segments, or they can be fabricated as a unitary structure by cutting thin grooves in a cylindrically shaped plate. The PVDF is flexible and the array 8 can be obtained by forming it in the form of a planar sheet and then bending it into an arc form. The sound absorber 13 made of a resinous material mixed with a metal powder is provided in contact with the back of the array 7. The array 7, the sound absorber 13 and the array 8 are assembled together through using an adhesive binder. The PZT has an acoustic impedance of about 35 x 106 Kg/m sec and thePVDF has an acoustic impedance of about 4 x 106 Kg/m2 sec. Accordingly, it is preferable that the PZT and the PVDF resonate with X/2 and X/4 mode, respectively. Ultrasonic waves from the PZT pass through the PVDF. With the PVDF, it is also possible to produce an effect just like acoustic impedance matching with respect to the PZT. Ultrasonic waves emitted from the PVDF backward thereof are mostly reflected by the PZT back to the front. In this exaple, the first and second layers are characterized by the center frequencies 3.5 and 2.25 MHz, respectively, but CHIRP modulation, pseudo-random code modulation or the like can also be employed. By discriminating received signals through using a filter, the both systems can be operated completely simultaneously. In this example, two linear arrays lie one on the other at the same position and the same plane can be scanned at different frequencies; therefore, this doublelayer array structure is suitable for discriminating living tissues on the basis of the difference between their frequency characteristics.
  [0042]  In Fig. 14, the layer 7 of a linear array made of PZT and having a center frequency of 3.5 MHz and the layer 10 of a linear array made of PVDF and having a center frequency of 2.25 MHz are assembled together to overlap each other so that two perpendicularly intersecting planes of sector scan can be formed. In this case, the array 7 underlies the array 10. The reflector 11 is made of a material of the same acoustic impedance as that of the material of the array 7 and has the same thickness as does the array 7, and it reflects ultrasonic waves emitted from the array 10 rearward thereof so that the same characteristic as that of the intersecting portion of the arrays 7 and 10. The reflector 11 can be made of nonpolarized PZT ceramics or the like. The nonpolarized plates 12 are each made of a material of the same acoustic- impedance as that of the material of the array 10 and has the same thickness as does the array 10 so that the ultrasonic waves emitted forward of the array 7 may become uniform over the entire area thereof, including the intersecting portion of the vibrator arrays 7 and 10. The nonpolarized plates 12 are each attached to the surface of the array 10 on either side of the intersecting portion. It is convenient to use, for the nonpolarized plates 12, PVDF employed for the array 10. According to this embodiment, it is possible to form two perpendicularly intersecting planes of sector scan through one window and to scan the planes completely simultaneously.
  [0043]  Fig. 15 illustrates a specific example of a array structure for performing aperture control according to the present invention. Reference numerals 7 and 9 indicate arrays; 71, 72, 73 ... and 91, 92, 93, ... designate piezoelectric segments; and 90 identifies a grounding electrode. A sound field formed, for example, by a circular aperture of a radius "a" is beam-shaped and the beam radius in a near field is "a" but in a far field diverges in a sharp conical form the vertical angle of which is proportional to a/X (where λ is the wavelength). Accordingly, when it is desired that beam patterns of two frequencies are made identical in the far field, the aperture "a" must be made proportional to the wavelength X. In this case, however, the beam patterns in the near field differ. According to the present invention, by determining the aperture so that the near field is mostly confined in the front room inside the window 1, beams in the member under test room inside the window 1, beams in the member under test can be far-field beams. As a result of this, it is pos- sible to obtain beams of the same pattern independent of the frequencies over the entire measurement depth range. This is important especially for discriminating living tissues through utilization of their frequency dependence. In Fig. 15 unit segments each composed of the piezoelectric segments like 71 and 91, are arranged side by side linearly to from the arrays 7 and 9. The narrow rectangular-shaped piezoelectric segment 71 made of PZT is driven at a wave- length λ1 and has an electrode on either side deposited over the entire length in the Y-axis direction and is effective along the entire length W1. The piezo- electric element 91 is formed of PVDF and driven at a wave- length λ2 and has a length W1 in the Y-axis direction, but the effective length of its opposing electrodes is W2, which bears such a relation as W1/W2 = λ1/λ2. The front electrode of the piezoelectric element 91 is formed to extend to the lower end of the element 91 for serving as an electrode lead wire. Unit elements, each composed of the piezoelectric segments 71 and 91, are arranged side by side to form the arrays 7 and 9, which are formed as a unitary structure with the sound absorber 13, providing compounded linear arrays. In actual operation, n1 and n2 vibrators are selected from the arrays 7 and 9, respectively, to provide an aperture; in this case, nl/n2 = λ1/λ2. With such an arrangement, beams substantially rectangular in cross section are formed but, in the far field, the beams of the wavelengths λ1 and À2 become identical in shape with each other. In Fig. 15 the piezo- electric element 91 is shown with its portion above a point P taken off for convenience of displaying but, in practice, it must not be removed.
  [0044]  Fig. 16 illustrates another specific example of the array structure which performs aperture control according to the present invention and is shown to explain the another aperture control of the linear array such as 8 in the Y-axis direction in Fig. 13. Reference numeral 8' indicates an organic piezoelectric sheet such as PVDF; 80 designates a grounding electrode; and 81, 82, 83, ... identify signal electrodes. The grounding electrode 8' has a width W2 and is deposited on the organic piezoelectric plate 8' to extend the entire length thereof in the direction of its circular arc. By applying a voltage to the piezoelectric sheet while heated for polarization after forming such electrodes, it is possible to adapt the piezoelectric sheet so that only those portions thereof on which the grounding electrode 80 and the signal electrodes 81, 82, 83, ... are facing together present a piezoelectric operation. The non-piezoelectric portion serves as a medium permitting the passage therethrough of ultrasonic waves from the piezoelectric elements 71, 72, 73, ... and is effective for preventing that the distribution of the ultrasonic waves from the piezoelectric elements 71, 72, 73, ... in the Y-axis direction is disturbed by that piezoelectric : portion of the piezoelectric sheet 8' having the width W2.
  [0045]  The foregoing description has been given of the principal part of the present invention for performing the three-dimensional sector-scan through utilization of linear arrays. Since the present invention does not involve phase control which is needed in the phased array, the control circuit is enough to mainly perform selective switching of the segments, and hence is simple and inexpensive. Furthermore, since the area for arrangement of transducer segments can be made wide, the segment array can easily be formed for three-dimensional scanning, multi-frequency operation and so forth. And its fabrication is easy and inexpensive.
  [0046]  On the other hand, the front room is required for intersecting the scanning lines at the window and, in order to prevent a bad influence of multiple reflection by the -window, the skin surface, the.transducer and so on, the following condition must be fulfilled.  where ℓ1 is the path length between the transducer and the window, V1 is the sound speed of the medium in the front room, t2 is a maximum measurement depth outside the window and v2 is the sound speed of the member under test. This introduces the disadvantage that the front room becomes large. When v1 ≒ v21 ℓ1 becomes at least equal to ℓ2 and, in the case of a heart or the like organ, ℓ2 is 18 cm, so that the probe becomes long. Letting the angle of scan in the member under test be represented by θ2, the angle of scan θ1 becomes, owing to refraction, as follows:  When v1  v2, if 2θ2 = 90°, then 281 = 90°and, ℓ2 = 18 cm, the probe becomes to big for practical use. For actual use of the probe, it is necessary to reduce the length ℓ1 and the angle of scan 2θ1 in the front room (the vertex angle of the outer shape of the guadrangular pyramidal probe). This requirement can be met by selecting, as a medium in the front room, a medium of v1/v2 ≤ 1. This is evident from the abovesaid expression ℓ1 and θ1. It is very preferable that v1/v2 ≤ 1/2. Flourinated oil is available as such a material and the sound speed v2 is 1500 m/sec in the living tissue or the like, whereas the sound speed v1 is 700, 527 and 590 m/sec in FC48, FC72 and FC75 by 3M Inc., respectively, providing an excellent v1/v2 ratio.
  [0047]  It will be apparent that many modifications and variations may be effected without departing from the scope of the novel concepts of the present invention.

1. An ultrasonic sector-scan probe comprising:
at least an array consisting of a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments;
a window for transmitting and receiving ultrasonic waves;
and an ultrasonic wave propagation medium filled in a front room defined between the array and the window;
wherein a group of transducer segments in the array are selectively driven as one group and ultrasonic waves emitted therefrom are formed into a beam for transmission to the member held in contact with the window on the outside thereof and then reflected waves from the subject are received through the window; and by partly or entirely changing the segments in the group with the ones outside the group, the scan line is shifted to a new angle and;
wherein the array is constructed so that scanning lines formed by selectively driving the segment group may all intersect substantially at one point in the window or in its vicinity to perform sector scan of the member; and an acoustic is provided in the window or in its vicinity so that an ultrasonic beam focal region may be formed almost over measuring depth range of the member under test. 

  
2. An ultrasonic sector-scan probe according to claim 1 wherein the ultrasonic wave propagation medium filled in the front room is a medium the sound speed of which is substantially equal to or lower than the sound speed in the member under test.

  
3. An ultrasonic three-dimensional sector-scan probe comprising:
at least one array consisting of a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments;
a window for transmitting and receiving ultrasonic waves;
and an ultrasonic wave propagation medium filled in a front room defined between the array and the window;
wherein a group of the ultrasonic transducer segments are selectively activated as an aperture and ultrasonic waves emitted therefrom are formed into a beam for transmission to the member held in contact with the window on the outside thereof and then reflected waves from the member are received through the window; by partly or entirely changing the segments in the group with the ones outside the group, the scan line is shifted to a new angle;
and therein the segments are arrayed multidimensionally or in plural linear arrays so that scanning lines formed by any group in the arrays may intersect substantially at one point in the window or in its vicinity to perform sector scan of the member, thereby to perform sector scan of at least two sections and/or three-dimensional sector scan. 

  
4. An ultrasonic three-dimensional sector-scan probe according to claim 3 wherein the plural linear arrays, each of which consists of a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments arranged side by side, are arranged almost on a spherical plane having its center of curvature at the point of intersection of the scanning line.

  
5. An ultrasonic three-dimensional sector scan probe according to claim 3 wherein the plural linear arrays, each of which consists of a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments arranged side by side, are arranged so that each scanning plane perpendicularly intersects each other on a spherical plane having its center of curvature at the point of intersection of the scanning lines.

  
6. An ultrasonic three-dimensional sector-scan probe according to claim 3 wherein the planer array which comprises a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments arranged in a matrix form on a sperical plane having its center of curvature at the point of intersection of the scanning lines.

  
7. An ultrasonic three-dimensional sector-scan probe according to claim 4 or 5 wherein the plural linear arrays are used, each of which is composed of a plurality of transducer segments, and least two of the arrays have different carrier frequencies and/or differently labeled waveforms,

  
8. An ultrasonic three-dimensional sector-scan probe according to claim 3 wherein a desired number of linear transducer arrays, each composed of a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments arranged side by side on a layer, are placed putting one upon another and arranged on a circular arc or a spherical plane having its center of curvature at the point of intersection of the scanning lines; and at least two of the linear transducer arrays have different carrier frequencies and/or differently labeled waveforms..

  
9. An ultrasonic three-dimensional sector-scan probe according to claim 3 to 7 wherein some of the ultrasonic transducer segments are laminated multi layer ultrasonic transducer segments formed by putting one segment on the other; and each layer of the laminated multi layer ultrasonic transducer segment itself is operable at a different carrier frequencies and/or differently labeled waveforms.

  
10. An ultrasonic three-dimensional sector-scan probe according to any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein in the case where a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments are arranged multidimensionally or in plural linear arrays and a beam consisting of plural different carrier frequencies along a scan line is formed, the aperture of each segment itself and/or the aperture defined by the segment number constituting the group are/is varied in accordance with the wavelength of the respective carrier frequency constituting the beam; and near sound fields of the ultrasonic waves mostly confined in the front room.

  
11. An ultrasonic three-dimensional sector-scan probe according to claims 3 to 10 wherein the ultrasonic wave propagation medium filled in the front room is a medium in whieh the sound speed is substantially equal to or lower than the sound speed in the member under test.

  
12. An ultrasonic sector-scan probe comprising:
at least an array comprising a plurality of ultrasonic transducer segments;
a window for transmitting and receiving ultrasonic waves;
and an ultrasonic wave propagation medium filled in a front room defined between the array and the window;
wherein a plurality of transducer segments in the- array are selectively driven as one group but in different phases and ultrasonc waves emitted therefrom are converged into a beam of desired focusing for transmission/reception to/from the member held in contact with the window on the outside thereof; and by partly or entirely changing the segments in the group with ones outside the group, the scan line is shifted to a new angle;
wherein the each array is arranged so that beams formed by every groups may all intersect substantially at one point in the window or in its vicinity to performs sector scan in the member; and an acoustic lens is provided in the window or in its vicinity; and the phase differences for driving the ultrasonic transducer segments in the selected group are determined so that the beam having passed through the acoustic lens may be converged almost over measuring depth range of the member under test.