Source: [EP0253268A1](https://patents.google.com/patent/EP0253268A1)

# [EP0253268A1](EP0253268A1.md) - [EP0253268A1](EP0253268A1.md) - Ultrasonic Probe

## Details

* Date: 1986-07-07
* Inventor: Panasonic Corp
* Beneficiary: Masami Kawabuchi, Fumio Muramatsu

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * [US3817089A](US3817089A.md)
 * [US4282879A](US4282879A.md)
 * EP0039045A1
 * EP0065275A1
### Forward
 * GB2212267A
 * DE3929611A1
 * EP0402410A1
 * [US5107844A](US5107844A.md)
 * EP1576926A1
 * WO2009097613A1
## Abstract

Abstract

An ultrasonic transducer element (l30) is supported by a member (l20). The transducer element and the supporting member are disposed within a casing (l00) filled with ultrasonic wave propagation medium (l50). At least part of the casing forms an ultrasonic wave transmission window. In a first case, the supporting member (l20) is rotatable about a first axis (A) and about a second axis (B), and the position of the supporting member is detected (20). In a second case, the casing (30l) has a first portion (304) accommodating the transducer element (306) and the supporting member (307) and a second portion (303) extending in rear of the first portion and being narrower than the first portion, and the transducer element is allowed to emit and receive ultrasonic wave to and from a region extending in front of the casing with respect to a direction of insertion of the casing into a body to be examined. In a third case, a sensor (322) detects at least one condition related to operation of a mechanism driving the supporting member.



An ultrasonic transducer element (l30) is supported by a member (l20). The transducer element and the supporting member are disposed within a casing (l00) filled with ultrasonic wave propagation medium (l50). At least part of the casing forms an ultrasonic wave transmission window. In a first case, the supporting member (l20) is rotatable about a first axis (A) and about a second axis (B), and the position of the supporting member is detected (20). In a second case, the casing (30l) has a first portion (304) accommodating the transducer element (306) and the supporting member (307) and a second portion (303) extending in rear of the first portion and being narrower than the first portion, and the transducer element is allowed to emit and receive ultrasonic wave to and from a region extending in front of the casing with respect to a direction of insertion of the casing into a body to be examined. In a third case, a sensor (322) detects at least one condition related to operation of a mechanism driving the supporting member.

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

Field of the Invention
   This invention relates to an ultrasonic probe usable in ultrasonic systems such as medical ultrasonic diagnostic systems.
 Description of the Prior Art
   Some medical ultrasonic diagnostic systems produce sectional images of bodies. These systems generally have ultrasonic probes which scan beams of ultrasonic wave pulses to produce sectional images of bodies. There are ultrasonic probes of the mechanically scanning type. Some ultrasonic probes are inserted into and used in coeloms of a body to produce sectional images of internal organs. As will be described hereinafter, conventional ultrasonic probes have various problems.
 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

   It is a first object of this invention to provide a small ultrasonic probe.
    It is a second object of this invention to provide an ultrasonic probe which generates an acceptably low level of vibration.
    It is a third object of this invention to provide an ultrasonic probe which can produce sectional images over a wide range.
    It is a fourth object of this invention to provide an easily handleable ultrasonic probe.
    It is a fifth object of this invention to provide an ultrasonic probe which can produce sectional images in a region where sectional images are generally unavailable heretofore.
    It is a sixth object of this invention to provide an ultrasonic probe which inflicts an acceptably low level of pain on a patient during insertion of the probe into the body of the patient.
    It is a seventh object of this invention to provide an ultrasonic probe which can absorb load variations.
    It is an eighth object of this invention to provide an ultrasonic probe which allows an excellent yield during manufacture.
    In an ultrasonic probe according to a first aspect of this invention, an ultrasonic transducer element is supported by a member. A casing accommodates the transducer element and the supporting member and is filled with ultrasonic wave propagation medium. At least part of the casing forms an ultrasonic wave transmission window. The supporting member is rotatable about a first axis and also about a second axis. The position of the supporting member is detected.
    In an ultrasonic probe according to a second aspect of this invention, an ultrasonic transducer element is supported by a member. A casing has a first portion and a second portion. The first casing portion accommodates the transducer element and the supporting member and is filled with ultrasonic wave propagation medium. At least part of the first casing portion forms an ultrasonic wave transmission window. The second casing portion extends in rear of the first casing portion and is narrower than the first casing portion. The transducer element is allowed to emit and receive ultrasonic wave to and from a region extending in front of the casing with respect to a direction of insertion of the casing into a body to be examined.
    In an ultrasonic probe according to a third aspect of this invention, an ultrasonic transducer element is supported by a member. A casing has a first portion and a second portion. The first casing portion accommodates the transducer element and the supporting member and is filled with ultrasonic wave propagation medium. At least part of the first casing portion forms an ultrasonic wave trasmission window. The second casing portion extends in rear of the first casing portion and is narrower than the first casing portion. A sensor detects at least one condition related to operation of a mechanism driving the supporting member. .
 
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

   
  
Fig. l is a diagram of a known ultrasonic probe.
Fig. 2 is a sectional view of an organ and another known ultrasonic probe.
Fig. 3 is a sectional view of an ultrasonic probe according to a first embodiment of this invention.
Fig. 4 is a diagram showing rotations of the support and the transducer element, and scanning planes in the ultrasonic probe of Fig. 3.
Fig. 5 is a sectional view of an ultrasonic probe according to a second embodiment of this invention.
Fig. 6 is a sectional view of an ultrasonic probe according to a third embodiment of this invention.
Fig. 7 is a sectional view of the ultrasonic probe taken along the line VII-VII in Fig. 6.
Fig. 8 is a sectional view of an ultrasonic probe according to a fourth embodiment of this invention.
Fig. 9 is a diagram of an internal design of the condition sensor unit of Fig. 8.


DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS

   Prior to the description of embodiments of this invention, known ultrasonic probes will be desribed hereinafter for a better understanding of this invention.
    Fig. l shows a known ultrasonic probe of the mechanically scanning type disclosed in Japanese published unexamined patent application 53-83370. In the known ultrasonic probe of Fig. l, an ultrasonic transducer element or head l is rotatably supported on a frame 3 via a shaft 2. The transducer element l is connected via a link 4A to a power source 5A, such as an electric motor, a pneumatic actuator, or a hydraulic actuator. The power source 5A can rotate the transducer element l about the shaft 2 in a limited angular range. A synchronizing device 7 controls operation of the power source 5A. The rotation of the transducer element l by the power source 5A allows a sector scan of a beam of ultrasonic wave pulses emitted from the transducer element l. This scan produces a sectoral section image of a body.
    A direction shaft 6 carrying the frame 3 is connected via a link 4B to a power source 5B, such as an electric motor, a pneumatic actuator, or a hydraulic actuator. The power source 5B can rotate the frame 3 about the direction shaft 6. Accordingly, at varying directions or angular positions of the frame 3, sectoral section images of the body are available. The synchronizing device 7 controls operation of the power source 5B.
    In the known ultrasonic probe of Fig. l, the transducer element drive mechanism composed of the link 4A and the power source 5A considerably limits the angle of the sector scan of the beam of ultrasonic wave pulses. The links 4A and 4B cause the probe to be large. Since the transducer element l and the frame 3 are subjected to reciprocating rotational movements in limited angular ranges, great mechanical vibrations tend to be generated.
    Japanese published unexamined patent application 59-l3l339 discloses an ultrasonic probe designed to be used in coeloms of a body to produce sectional images of internal organs. Fig. 2 shows such a known ultrasonic probe. In the known ultrasonic probe of Fig. 2, a pulse motor ll is connected to a damper l4 via a micro gear head l2 and a shaft l3. The, damper l4 carries an ultrasonic transducer element or head l5. The shaft l3 is supported by a plate l6. The devices ll-l6 are accommodated in a casing l7. As shown in Fig. 2, the ultrasonic probe is inserted into an organ l8 of a body.
    The pulse motor ll serves to rotate the damper l4 and the transducer element l5 about the shaft l3. The micro gear head l2 reduces the rotational speed of the transducer element l5 in comparison with the rotational speed of the pulse motor ll. The rotation of the transducer element l5 by the pulse motor ll allows a sector scan of a beam of ultrasonic wave pulses emitted from the transducer element l5. This scan of the beam of ultrasonic wave pulses produces a sectoral section image of the organ l8.
    In the known ultrasonic probe of Fig. 2, since the transducer element l5 is ratatable only about the shaft l3, a section of the organ l8 which can be imaged extends along a plane (denoted by the broken line in Fig. 2) perpendicular to the shaft l3. Accordingly, it is generally difficult to take a sectional image of a portion of the organ l8 extending at and around an assumed extension of the shaft l3. Specifically, it is difficult to take a sectional image of a portion of the organ l8 extending in front of the casing l7 with respect to a direction of the insertion of the probe into the organ l8. In addition, since the casing l7 has a large outside diameter, a patient tends to suffer pain during the insertion and use of the probe.
    In the known ultrasonic probes of Figs. l and 2, it is generally difficult to limit variations in loads on the power sources 5A and 5B, and the pulse motor ll within acceptably small ranges. Since the speeds of the transducer elements l and l5 fluctuate with variations in loads on the power devices 5A, 5B, and ll, available sectional images are degraded by these load variations. Such power device load variations are generally caused by dimensional errors of parts of the drive arrangements between the power devices and the transducer elements, and caused by temperature variations. Accordingly, in the known ultrasonic probes of Figs. l and 2, a yield tends to be low.
    Fig. 3 shows an ultrasonic probe according to a first embodiment of this invention. In the ultrasonic probe of Fig. 3, a motor l9 and an encoder 20 are disposed within a cylindrical casing 40. A cable 30 containing electric leads extends into the casing 40 and is electrically connected to the motor l9 and the encoder 20. The cable 30 is also electrically connected to a main portion of a medical ultrasonic diagnostic system (not shown). Various signals are transmitted between the main portion of the diagnostic system and the motor l9, and between the main portion of the diagnostic system and the encoder 20 via the cable 30. A chassis 80 is disposed within a housing or container l00 fixed to the casing 40. An ultrasonic transducer element or head l30 is attached to an outer surface of a support l20 which is rotatably connected to the chassis 80 via a shaft ll0. The transducer element l30 is preferably provided with an acoustic matching layer and an acoustic lens in a known manner.
    A signal transmission device 50 preferably composed of a slip ring is mounted on the chassis 80. A rotary transformer (not shown) is disposed within the support l20. The transducer element l30 is electrically connected to the cable 30 via the signal transmission device 50, the rotary transformer, and leads (not shown). It should be noted that the rotary transformer may be replaced by a slip ring.
    The container l00 is filled with liquid ultrasonic wave propagation medium. An O-ring 60 provided between the chassis 80 and a shaft l90 prevents leakage of the ultrasonic wave propagation liquid. An O-ring 70 provided between the chassis 80 and the container l00 also prevents leakage of the ultrasonic wave propagation liquid. The container l00 is preferably made of a material permeable to ultrasonic waves so that the container l00 forms an ultrasonic wave transmission window. It should be noted that only a portion of the container l00 may be designed to form an ultrasonic wave transmission window.
    The motor l9 has a rotatable output shaft coaxial with the shaft l90. A clutch 200 provided between the motor shaft and the shaft l90 selectively connects and disconnects the shaft l90 to and from the motor shaft. The shaft l90 extends along a central axis of the chassis 80. A bevel gear 90 is fixedly mounted on a shaft 9l rotatably suppoted by the chassis 80. The shaft 9l extends perpendicular to the shaft l90. The bevel gear 90 meshes with a bevel gear l80 fixedly mounted on the shaft l90. A pulley l70 fixedly mounted on the shaft 9l is coupled via an endless belt l60 to a pulley l40 fixedly mounted on the shaft ll0. The shaft ll0 extends parallel to the shaft 9l and perpendicular to the shaft l90. In cases where the clutch 200 connects the shaft l90 to the motor shaft, when the motor l9 is activated, a rotational force is transmitted from the motor l9 to the support l20 via the motor shaft, the clutch 200, the shaft l90, the bevel gears 90 and l80, the shaft 9l, the pulley l70, the belt l60, the pulley l40, and the shaft ll0 so that the support l20 and the tranducer element l30 rotate about the shaft ll0. This rotation of the support l20 and the transducer element l30 is denoted by the arrow A in Fig. 4.
    A gear 2l0 fixedly carried on a slider 230 connected to the motor shaft. The connection between the slider 230 and the motor shaft preferably includes a key coupling which allows the slider 230 to rotate together with the motor shaft and allows the slider 230 to move axially relative to the motor shaft. Since the gear 2l0 is fixed to the slider 230, the gear 2l0 rotates together with the motor shaft but is axially movable relative to the motor shaft. A gear 220 is secured to the chassis 80. As the gear 2l0 is moved axially by the slider 230, the gear 2l0 comes into and out of mesh with the gear 220. The chassis 80 is rotatably supported on the container l00 via bearings. The chassis 80 can rotate about the motor shaft and the shaft l90. Since the transducer element l30 is connected to the chassis 80 via the support l20 and the shaft ll0, the trasducer element l30 rotates together with the chassis 80. In cases where the clutch 200 disconnects the motor shaft from the shaft l90, when the gear 2l0 is moved into mesh with the gear 220 and the motor l9 is activated, a rotational force is transmitted from the motor l9 to the chassis 80 so that the chassis 80 and the transducer element l30 rotate about the motor shaft and the shaft l90. This rotation of the transducer element l30 is denoted by the arrow B in Fig. 4.
    The clutch 200 is preferably of the electromagnetic type. In this case, the clutch 200 is electrically connected to the cable 30 via electric leads so that the clutch 200 is controllable via an electric signal outputted from the main portion of the diagnostic system. It should be noted that the clutch 200 may be controllable via a mechanical device which can be handled outside the casing 40. The slider 230 is preferably driven by an electric actuator or a solenoid disposed within the casing 40. In this case, the actuator or the solenoid is electrically connected to the cable 30 via electric leads so that the slider 230 is controllable via an electric signal outputted from the main portion of the diagnostic system. It should be noted that the slider 230 may be controllable via a mechanical device which can be handled outside the casing 40.
    The encoder 20 is associated with the motor shaft. The encoder 20 generates an electric signal or signals representing the angular position of the motor shaft and the rotational speed of the motor shaft. These signals are transmitted to the main portion of the diagnostic system via the cable 30. The encoder 20 is preferably of the optical type or the electromagnetic type generating electric pulses in accordance with the rotation of the motor shaft. Since the position of the transducer element l30 depends on the angular position of the motor shaft, the position of the transducer element l30 is detected via the signal representing the angular position of the motor shaft.
    The ultrasonic probe of Fig. 3 operates as follows. The ultrasonic probe is generally inserted into a coelom of a body to be examined. First, the operation of the ultrasonic probe will be described with respect to cases where the slider 230 is moved to a position at which the gear 2l0 separates from the gear 220, and where the clutch 200 is controlled so that the shaft l90 is coupled to the motor shaft. Under these conditions, as the motor l9 is activated, the support l20 and the transducer element l30 rotate about the shaft ll0 and in the direction denoted by the arrow A of Fig. 4. When the position of the transducer element l30 which is detected via the signal from the encoder 20 reaches a desired position or range, the main portion of the diagnostic system outputs an activation signal to the transducer element l30 via the cable 30, the signal transmission device 50, and the rotary transformer (not shown) within the support l20 so that the transducer element l30 is energized. Accordingly, the transducer element l30 emits a beam of ultrasonic wave pulses, which travels to the body via the ultrasonic wave propagation liquid l50 and the walls of the container l00. The body generally has uneven acoustic impedances which cause the ultrasonic wave pulses to be reflected. The reflected ultrasonic wave pulses return to the transducer element l30. The transducer element l30 converts the reflected and returned ultrasonic wave pulses into a corresponding electric signal, which is transmitted to the main portion of the diagnostic system via the rotary transformer within the support l20, the signal transmission device 50, and the cable 30. The main portion of the diagnostic system processes this electric signal and thereby derives a display data signal corresponding to one scanning line in a known way. The data signal is indicated by a display such as a cathode-ray tube. The previously-mentioned operation to derive a diaplay data signal corresponding one scanning line is periodically reiterated while the transducer element l30 is rotated through a desired angular range by the motor l9. In this way, the beam of ultrasonic wave pulses emitted from the transducer element l30 is scanned along a sector plane 300 as shown in Fig. 4, so that a corresponding sector sectional image of the body is obtained on the display. During this sector scanning process, the main portion of the diagnostic system monitors the position of the transducer element l30 via the signal from the encoder 20 and controls the position of the transducer element l30 in accordance with the monitored information via the signal to the motor l9 in conventional closed loop control. Furthermore, the main portion of the diagnostic system controls the speed of the motor l9 in accordance with the speed signal from the encoder 20 to regulate the rotational speed of the support l20 and the transducer element l30 at a constant value. The angle of the sector scan of the ultrasonic wave beam is, for example, l00째. The sector scan angle may be 360째 or other values. The support l20 and the transducer element l30 may be rotated in reciprocatory motion by a suitable actuator to produce a sector scan of the ultrasonic wave beam.
    Second, the operation of the ultrasonic probe will be described with respect to cases where the clutch 200 is controlled so that the shaft l90 is disconnected from the motor shaft, and where the slider 230 is moved to a position at which the gear 2l0 meshes with the gear 220. Under these condition, as the motor l9 is activated, the support l20 and the transducer element l30 rotate together with the chassis 80 about the motor shaft and the shaft l90 and in the direction denoted by the arrow B of Fig. 4. In these cases, the transducer element l30 is generally prelocated so as to face in the direction perpendicular to the motor shaft and the shaft l90. When the position of the transducer element l30 which is detected via the signal from the encoder 20 reaches a desired position or range, the main portion of the diagnostic system outputs an activation signal to the transducer element l30 via the cable 30, the signal transmission device 50, and the rotary transformer (not shown) within the support l20 so that the transducer element l30 is energized. Accordingly, the transducer element l30 emits a beam of ultrasonic wave pulses, which travels to the body via the ultrasonic wave propagation liquid l50 and the walls of the container l00. The body generally has uneven acoustic impedances which cause the ultrasonic wave pulses to be reflected. The reflected ultrasonic wave pulses return to the transducer element l30. The transducer element l30 converts the reflected and returned ultrasonic wave pulses into a corresponding electric signal, which is transmitted to the main portion of the diagnostic system via the rotary transformer within the support l20, the signal transmission device 50, and the cable 30. The main portion of the diagnostic system processes this electric signal and thereby derives a display data signal corresponding to one scanning line in a known way. The data signal is indicated by the display. In general, the previously-mentioned operation to derive a diaplay data signal corresponding one scanning line is periodically reiterated while the transducer element l30 is rotated through an angle of 360째 by the motor l9. In this way, the beam of ultrasonic wave pulses emitted from the transducer element l30 is scanned along a circular plane 400 as shown in Fig. 4, so that a corresponding circular sectional image of the body is obtained on the display. During this circular scanning process, the main portion of the diagnostic system monitors the position of the transducer element l30 via the signal from the encoder 20 and controls the position of the transducer element l30 in accordance with the monitored information via the signal to the motor l9 in conventional closed loop control. Furthermore, the main portion of the diagnostic system controls the speed of the motor l9 in accordance with the speed signal from the encoder 20 to regulate the rotational speed of the transducer element l30 at a constant value. It should be noted that the angle of the circular scan of the ultrasonic wave beam may be smaller than 360째.
    As understood from the previous description, the ultrasonic probe of Figs. 3 and 4 can produce sectional imgages of a body over a wide range. Furthermore, the ultrasonic probe of Figs. 3 and 4 can produce a hemispherical imgage of a body when a sector scan and a circular scan are combined. In the ultrasonic probe of Figs. 3 and 4, the power drive train is basically composed of the gears and the pulleys so that the level of generated vibrations is acceptably low.
    Fig. 5 shows an ultrasonic probe according to a second embodiment of this invention. The second embodiment is similar to the embodiment of Figs. 3 and 4 except for design changes described hereinafter.
    In the ultrasonic probe of Fig. 5, the clutch 200 and the slider 230 (see Fig. 3) are omitted, and the shaft l90 is directly coupled to the output shaft of the motor l9. A second motor l9A and a second encoder 20A are disposed within the casing 40. A gear 2l0 fixedly mounted on an output shaft of the motor l9A meshes with a gear 220 fixed to the chassis 80. The second motor l9A is electrically connected to the cable 30 so that the second motor l9A can be controlled via an electric signal outputted from the main portion of the diagnostic system. The second encoder 20A is associated with the output shaft of the second motor l9A. The second encoder 20A generates an electric signal or signals representing the angular position of the output shaft of the second motor l9A and the rotational speed of the output shaft of the second motor l9A. The second encoder 20A is electrically connected to the cable 30 so that the electric signals are transmitted from the second encoder 20A to the main portion of the diagnostic system via the cable 30.
    As the motor l9 is activated, the shaft l90 rotates so that the support l20 and the transducer element l30 rotate about the shaft ll0. This rotation of the transducer element l30 allows a sector scan of the ultrasonic wave beam. As the second motor l9A is activated, the chassis 80 rotates so that the support l20 and the transducer element l30 rotate together with the chassis 80. This rotation of the transducer element l30 allows a circular scan of the ultrasonic wave beam. Since the position of the transducer element l30 depends on the angular position of the output shaft of the motor l9 and on the angular position of the output shaft of the second motor l9A so that the signals outputted from the encoders 20 and 20A represent the position of the transducer element l30. The main portion of the diagnostic system controls the motors l9 and l9A in accordance with the signals from the encorders 20 and 20A.
    In the ultrasonic probe of Fig. 5, the sector scanning mechanism and the circular scanning mechanism include separate motors and encoders respectively, so that a quick change between the sector scan and the circular scan is allowed.
    It should be noted that in the motor power drive trains of the embodiments of Figs. 3-5, the gears and the pulleys may be replaced by other suitable elements.
    Figs. 6 and 7 show an ultrasonic probe according to a third embodiment of this invention. The ultrasonic probe of Figs. 6 and 7 includes a casing 30l having a drive member accommodating portion 302, a narrow elongated portion 303, and a transducer element accommodating portion 304. A first enlarged end of the elongated portion 303 is connected to the drive member accommodating portion 302 by a connection member 305 fixed to the casing portions 302 and 303 via threads. A second enlarged end of the elongated portion 303 is connected to the transducer element accommodating portion 304.
    A motor 3ll and an encoder 3l2 are disposed within the casing portion 302. A drive shaft 3l0 is coaxially disposed within the casing portion 303. An ultrasonic transducer element 306 and a support 307 are disposed within the casing portion 304. At least part of the transducer element accommodating portion 304 is formed with an acoustic window.
    When the ultrasonic probe is used, it is inserted into a coelom of a body in the direction D (see Fig. 6) corresponding to a longitudinal axis of the casing 30l.
    The transducer element 306 is attached to an outer surface of the support 307. The support 307 is rotatably connected to a frame 308 via a shaft 309 extending perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the casing 30l or the insertion direction B. The shaft 309 is also perpendicular to the drive shaft 3l0. The support 307 and the transducer element 306 can rotate about the shaft 309. The frame 308 is supported by the casing portion 303. An end of the drive shaft 3l0 is rotatably supported by the frame 308. The other end of the drive shaft 3l0 is connected via a coupling 3l4 to an output shaft 3l3 of the motor 3ll so that the drive shaft 3l0 can be rotated by the motor 3ll. The motor 3ll is supported by the connection member 305.
    A power transmission mechanism connects the drive shaft 3l0 and the support 3l7 so that the support 3l7 rotates about the shaft 309 as the drive shaft 3l0 rotates. The power transmission mechanism changes the direction of a transmitted rotational force such that the axis of rotation of the support 3l7 is perpendicular to the axis of rotation of the drive shaft 3l0. For example, the power transmission mechanism includes a combination of gears 3l5 and 3l6. The first gear 3l5 is fixedly mounted on the end of the drive shaft 3l0. The second gear 3l6 is attached to a side of the support 3l7. The gears 3l5 and 3l6 are in mesh. As the motor 3ll is activated, the motor shaft 3l3 and the drive shaft 3l0 rotate together so that the support 307 and the transducer element 306 rotate together about the shaft 309.
    The elongated portion 303 and the transducer element accommodating portion 304 are filled with ultrasonic wave propagation liquid 3l7 composed of deaerated water, butanediol, or others. A sealing member 3l8 provided between the connection member 305 and the motor shaft 3l3 prevents leakage of the ultrasonic wave propagation liquid 3l7. Such a location of the sealing member 3l8 ensures the narrow design of a major part of the elongated casing portion 303.
    As shown in Fig. 7, the elongated casing portion 303 includes an outer tube 3l9 and an inner tube 320 extending coaxially. The outer tube 3l9 is made of insulating material such as synthetic resin to prevent electric leakage from the ultrasonic probe to an examined body. The outer tube 320 is made of metal to increase the strength of the casing 30l.
    The motor 3ll is electrically connected via a cable (no reference character) to a main portion (not shown) of a medical ultrasonic diagnostic system so that the motor 3ll is controlled via an electric signal outputted from the main portion of the diagnostic system. The encoder 3l2 is associated with the motor shaft 3l3. The encoder 3l2 generates an electric signal or signals representing the angular position of the motor shaft 3l3 and the rotational speed of the motor shaft 3l3. Since the position of the transducer element 306 depends on the angular position of the motor shaft 3l3, the electric signal outputted by the encoder 3l2 also represents the position of the transducer element 306. The encoder 3l2 is electrically connected via the cable to the main portion of the diagnostic system so that the signal or signals are transmitted from the encoder 3l2 to the main portion of the diagnostic system.
    The transducer element 306 is electrically connected to the main portion of the diagnostic system so that electric signals are transmitted between the transducer element 306 and the main portion of the diagnostic system. The electrical connection between the transducer element 306 and the main portion of the diagnostic system includes the cable, and leads disposed in the casing 30l and extending between the transducer element 306 and the cable. As shown in Fig. 7, the inner casing tube 320 has an axial hole 32l through which these leads extend. The metal inner tube 320 is electrically grounded to reduce the ingress of foreign noises into signals travelling along the leads. It should be noted that the leads are electrically insulated from the metal inner tube 320 by a suitable insulating arrangement.
    For example, the transducer element accommodating portion 304 has an outside diameter of about 20 mm and a length of about 30 mm, and the elongated portion 303 has an outside diameter of about l0 mm and a length of about ll0 mm.
    The ultrasonic probe of Figs. 6 and 7 operates as follows. When the ultrasonic probe is used, it is inserted into a coelom of a body to be examined. The narrow design of the casing elongated portion 303 allows much eased pain to be inflicted on a patient during the insertion of the ultrasonic probe into the body of the patient. After the ultrasonic probe is inserted into the body, the motor 3ll is activated so that the drive shaft 3l0 rotates together with the motor shaft 3l3 and the coupling 3l4. The rotational force is transmitted from the drive shaft 3l0 to the support 307 via the gears 3l5 and 3l6, thereby rotating the support 307 and the transducer element 306.
    During the rotation of the transducer element 306, the transducer element 306 is activated so that a beam of ultrasonic wave pulses are emitted from the transducer element 306 into the examined body via the ultrasonic wave propagation liquid 3l7 and the acoustic window of the casing portion 304. Some of the emitted ultrasonic wave pulses are reflected by the examined body and return to the transducer element 306 via the acoustic window of the casing portion 304 and the ultrasonic wave propagation liquid 3l7. The transducer element 306 converts the reflected and returned ultrasonic wave pulses into a corresponding electric signal, which is transmitted to the main portion of the diagnostic system. The main portion of the diagnostic system processes this electric signal and thereby derives a display data signal corresponding to one scanning line in a known way. The data signal is indicated by a display such as a cathode-ray tube. In general, the previously-mentioned operation to derive a diaplay data signal corresponding one scanning line is periodically reiterated while the transducer element 306 is rotated through a desired angle by the motor 3ll. In this way, the beam of ultrasonic wave pulses emitted from the transducer element 306 is scanned along a sector plane extending frontward of the ultrasonic probe with respect to the insertion direction D, so that a corresponding sector sectional image of the portion of the body extending frontward of the ultrasonic probe is obtained on the display. During this sector scanning process, the main portion of the diagnostic system monitors the position of the transducer element 306 via the signal from the encoder 3l2 and controls the position of the transducer element 306 in accordance with the monitored information via the signal to the motor 3ll in conventional closed loop control. Furthermore, the main portion of the diagnostic system controls the speed of the motor 3ll in accordance with the speed signal from the encoder 3l2 to regulate the speed of rotation of the support 307 and the transducer element 306 at a constant value.
    Two or more ultrasonic transducer elements 306 may be arranged on the support 307. In this case, the support may be rotated in one direction only. In the case where a single transducer element 306 is provided, the support 307 may be rotated through a given angular range in reciprocatory motion. The mechanical scanning arrangement may be replaced by an electronic scanning system in which the transducer element is of the linear array type, the faced array type, or the convex array type.
    Figs. 8 and 9 show an ultrasonic probe according to a fourth embodiment of this invention. The fourth embodiment is similar to the embodiment of Figs. 6 and 7 except for design changes described hereinafter.
    In the embodiment of Figs. 8 and 9, a condition sensor unit 322 disposed within the casing portion 302 generates an electric signal representing conditions related to operation of the motor 3ll. The condition sensor unit 322 is electrically connected to the main portion of the diagnostic system via the cable so that the electric signal is transmitted from the condition sensor unit 322 to the main portion of the diagnostic system.
    As shown in Fig. 9, the condition sensor unit 322 includes a load section 323 and a temperature section 324 connected in series with a constant current supply (not shown). An electric line 325 connected between the condition sensor unit 322 and the main portion of the diagnostic system transmits the electric signal from the condition sensor unit 322 to the main portion of the diagnostic system.
    The load section 323 includes a variable resistor. The resistance of this variable resistor is predetermined as follows. After the assembly of the ultrasonic probe is completed, the motor 3ll is driven by a varying drive direct current at a given temperature, and the value of the drive current at which the speed of the motor 3ll equals a reference speed is detected. The resistance of the variable resistor is preset so as to correspond to this detected value of the drive current. Accordingly, the electric signal outputted via the electric line 325 represents this detected value of the drive current.
    The temperature section 324 includes a temperature responsive device or devices such as a diode and a thermistor. The reistance of the temperature section 324 varies with the temperature within the casing portion 302. Accordingly, the electric signal outputted via the electric line 325 represents the temperature within the casing portion 302.
    The main portion of the diagnostic system includes a phase-locked loop (PLL) circuit which basically serves to control the drive current of the motor 3ll in accordance with the signal from the encoder 3l2 so as to regulate the rotational speed of the support 307 and the transducer element 306 at a constant value. The signal outputted from the condition sensor unit 322 is used in the constant rotational speed control of the support 307 and the transducer element 306 to increase the reliability and the response characteristic of the control. Specifically, the signal outputted from the condition sensor unit 322 is used to compensate variations in the load on the motor 3ll caused by dimensional errors of the parts and temperature changes. Accordingly, the PLL circuit can operate effectively and the yield during manufacture can be improved.
    It should be noted that modification may be made in the embodiment of Figs. 8 and 9. For example, the condition sensor unit 322 may be located at other places. The condition sensor unit 322 may be embedded in the walls of the casing portion 302. One of the load section 323 and the temperature section 324 may be omitted from the condition sensor unit 322.

1. An ultrasonic probe comprising:
(a) an ultrasonic transducer element;
(b) a member supporting the transducer element;
(c) a casing accommodating the transducer element and the supporting member and filled with ultrasonic wave propagation medium, wherein at least part of the casing forms an ultrasonic wave transmission window;
(d) means for rotating the supporting member about a first axis and also about a second axis; and
(e) means for detecting position of the supporting member. 

  
2. The ultrasonic probe of claim l wherein the rotating means comprises a motor, and means for allowing the motor to rotate the supporting member selectively about the first axis and about the second axis.

  
3. The ultrasonic probe of claim l wherein the rotating means comprises a first motor, means for allowing the first motor to rotate the supporting member about the first axis, a second motor, and means for allowing the second motor to rotate the supporting member about the second axis.

  
4. An ultrasonic probe comprising:
(a) an ultrasonic transducer element;
(b) a member supporting the transducer element;
(c) a casing having a first portion and a second portion, the first casing portion accommodating the transducer element and the supporting member and filled with ultrasonic wave propagation medium, wherein at least part of the first casing portion forms an ultrasonic wave transmission window, the second casing portion extending in rear of the first casing portion and being narrower than the first casing portion; and
(d) means for allowing the transducer element to emit and receive ultrasonic wave to and from a region extending in front of the casing with respect to a direction of insertion of the casing into a body to be examined. 

  
5. The ultrasonic probe of claim 4 wherein the second casing portion comprises an outer tube made of synthetic resin and an inner tube made of metal, the inner tube having an axial hole accommodating electric leads connected to the transducer element.

  
6. An ultrasonic probe comprising:
(a) an ultrasonic transducer element;
(b) a member supporting the transducer element;
(c) a casing having a first portion and a second portion, the first casing portion accommodating the transducer element and the supporting member and filled with ultrasonic wave propagation medium, wherein at least part of the first casing portion forms an ultrasonic wave trasmission window, the second casing portion extending in rear of the first casing portion;
(d) means for driving the supporting member; and
(e) means for detecting at least one condition related to operation of the driving means. 

  
7. The ultrasonic probe of claim 6 wherein the detecting means comprises means for sensing load on the driving means, and means for sensing temperature of the driving means.

  
8. The ultrasonic psrobe of claim 7 wherein the temperature sesing means comprises at least one thermistor.

  
9. The ultrasonic probe of claim 7 wherein the temperature sensing means comprises at least one diode.

  
l0. The ultrasonic probe of claim 7 wherein the load sensing means comprises a variable resistor having a predetermined resistance.