# EP0782125A3 - EP0782125A3 - Method and apparatus for transferring heat from transducer array of ultrasonic probe 
        - Google Patents

## Details

* Date: 1995-12-29
* Inventor: General Electric Co
* Beneficiary: Jonathan E. Snyder
## Other patents

### Backwards
 * US4748985A
 *US5213103A
 *US5560362A
### Forward
 * 
## Abstract

Abstract

A device for improving thermal transfer inside an
ultrasound probe and reducing heat build-up near the
transducer face. The cable components (40) are used as
heat pipes which conduct heat out of the probe handle
(14). These heat pipes are coupled to an internal heat
pipe (36) which is in heat conductive relationship with
the transducer pallet (2). Thus, heat generated by the
transducer array can be transferred, via the internal
heat pipe plate and the cable heat pipes, away from the
probe surface which contacts the patient. A heat
conductive structure can be embedded in the overall
shield braid of the cable (16). Suitable heat
conductive structures include thread or wire made of
material having a high coefficient of thermal
conductivity, as well as narrow tubing filled with heat
conductive fluid. Alternatively, inlet and return flow
paths for cooling fluid are incorporated in the cable.
The inlet and return flow paths inside the cable are
respectively connected to the inlet and outlet of a flow
path which is in heat conductive relationship with the
heat pipe in the probe handle.



A device for improving thermal transfer inside an
ultrasound probe and reducing heat build-up near the
transducer face. The cable components (40) are used as
heat pipes which conduct heat out of the probe handle
(14). These heat pipes are coupled to an internal heat
pipe (36) which is in heat conductive relationship with
the transducer pallet (2). Thus, heat generated by the
transducer array can be transferred, via the internal
heat pipe plate and the cable heat pipes, away from the
probe surface which contacts the patient. A heat
conductive structure can be embedded in the overall
shield braid of the cable (16). Suitable heat
conductive structures include thread or wire made of
material having a high coefficient of thermal
conductivity, as well as narrow tubing filled with heat
conductive fluid. Alternatively, inlet and return flow
paths for cooling fluid are incorporated in the cable.
The inlet and return flow paths inside the cable are
respectively connected to the inlet and outlet of a flow
path which is in heat conductive relationship with the
heat pipe in the probe handle.