# GB546338A - GB546338A - Improvements in the transmission of sound vibrations from objects between which and a fluid medium relative movement takes place 
      - Google Patents

## Details

* Date: 1940-12-02
* Inventor: 
* Beneficiary: 
## Other patents

### Backwards
 * 
### Forward
 * US4231373A
 *EP0071921A1
 *WO1985004507A1
## Abstract

Abstract

546,338. Locating sounds; signalling by audible signalling. BRIGHT, T. J. R., and FORD, R. C. Dec. 2, 1940, Nos. 17125 and 17131. [Class 118 (ii)] Relates to the reception and transmission of sound waves by or from an object, such as a ship or aeroplane, between which and the surrounding fluid medium there is relative movement. According to the invention, the receiving or transmitting device is moved in the same direction, and at the same speed, as the medium in order to reduce the 'effect of disturbing noises caused by relative movement between the device and the medium. The apparatus comprises a casing 2 having an opening 3 at one side and containing a rotary drum 4 which carries a number of microphones or transmitters 5. The rotor is driven at such a speed that each microphone traverses the opening 3 at approximately the same speed, but in the opposite direction, as the apparatus is travelling through the surrounding fluid. The rotor may be driven by any suitable means, preferably by means of vanes 6 exposed to the drag of the fluid through which the apparatus is moving. One of the leads from each microphone is earthed at 10 while the other is connected with a segment 13 of a rotary switch 14 which connects each microphone with an amplifier during the time it is traversing the opening 3. The microphones become effective in succession and the reception of sound is continuous. The switch 14 may be adjustable about its axis to assist in locating the direction of the source from which sounds are received. The apparatus may be fitted to an opening in the side of a ship or on an aircraft. In a modification, the microphones may be mounted on the face of a revolving disc or carried by a moving belt or conveyer.



546,338. Locating sounds; signalling by audible signalling. BRIGHT, T. J. R., and FORD, R. C. Dec. 2, 1940, Nos. 17125 and 17131. [Class 118 (ii)] Relates to the reception and transmission of sound waves by or from an object, such as a ship or aeroplane, between which and the surrounding fluid medium there is relative movement. According to the invention, the receiving or transmitting device is moved in the same direction, and at the same speed, as the medium in order to reduce the 'effect of disturbing noises caused by relative movement between the device and the medium. The apparatus comprises a casing 2 having an opening 3 at one side and containing a rotary drum 4 which carries a number of microphones or transmitters 5. The rotor is driven at such a speed that each microphone traverses the opening 3 at approximately the same speed, but in the opposite direction, as the apparatus is travelling through the surrounding fluid. The rotor may be driven by any suitable means, preferably by means of vanes 6 exposed to the drag of the fluid through which the apparatus is moving. One of the leads from each microphone is earthed at 10 while the other is connected with a segment 13 of a rotary switch 14 which connects each microphone with an amplifier during the time it is traversing the opening 3. The microphones become effective in succession and the reception of sound is continuous. The switch 14 may be adjustable about its axis to assist in locating the direction of the source from which sounds are received. The apparatus may be fitted to an opening in the side of a ship or on an aircraft. In a modification, the microphones may be mounted on the face of a revolving disc or carried by a moving belt or conveyer.