Source: [US10352477B2](https://patents.google.com/patent/US10352477B2)

# [US10352477B2](US10352477B2.md) - Visualization of tests on globe-type valves using phased array sequence scanning

## Details

* Date: 2010-12-10
* Inventor: IHI Southwest Technologies Inc
* Beneficiary: Jesse R. Delgado

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * [US4143554A](US4143554A.md)
 * US4429714A
 * US4479509A
 * US4782702A
 * US4920802A
 * US4977778A
 * US5008841A
 * US5155672A
 * US5154080A
 * US5159835A
 * US5228342A
 * US5236011A
 * US5257545A
 * US5392652A
 * US5471138A
 * US5475613A
 * US5504426A
 * US5523682A
 * US20010037670A1
 * US6332011B1
 * US6637267B2
 * US6666093B2
 * US6865243B2
 * US6917196B2
 * US6938457B2
 * US6965834B2
 * US20080092632A1
 * [US7412890B1](US7412890B1.md)
 * US20090045994A1
 * US7503227B2
 * US20090240453A1
 * US20090293621A1
 * US20100058880A1
 * US7694569B2
 * US7728967B2
 * US7784347B2
 * US20110006241A1
 * US7940189B2
 * US20110284097A1
 * US8115672B2
 * US20120239315A1
 * US8453508B2
 * US20140215823A1
 * US20140318770A1
 * US8904873B2
 * US20150285399A1
 * US9170238B2
 * [US9557303B2](US9557303B2.md)
### Forward
 * 
## Abstract

Abstract

A computer with a proper program generates a phased array sequence of signals. In a pulser with delays, the signals are fed through a multiplexor into multiple water wedges that are attached to a globe valve being tested. For a sequential operation of the globe valves from the open to the closed position, ultrasonic signals are transmitted through the fluid contained in the valve and reflected back through piezo-electric crystals to the multiplexor. By summation and merger of the signals, an image can be developed of the operation of the globe valve to determine if the globe valve is operating properly. By comparing the signals received with a known standard for that globe valve, proper operation, or lack thereof, of the globe valve under test can be determined. Separation of the valve stem from the globe can also be measured.



A computer with a proper program generates a phased array sequence of signals. In a pulser with delays, the signals are fed through a multiplexor into multiple water wedges that are attached to a globe valve being tested. For a sequential operation of the globe valves from the open to the closed position, ultrasonic signals are transmitted through the fluid contained in the valve and reflected back through piezo-electric crystals to the multiplexor. By summation and merger of the signals, an image can be developed of the operation of the globe valve to determine if the globe valve is operating properly. By comparing the signals received with a known standard for that globe valve, proper operation, or lack thereof, of the globe valve under test can be determined. Separation of the valve stem from the globe can also be measured.

CROSS-REFERENCE
This is a continuation-in-part of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/965,575, filed on Dec. 10, 2010, entitled “Testing of Swing Type Check Valves Using Phased Array Sequence Scanning,” now U.S. Pat. No. 8,433,508, issued Jun. 4, 2013, and a continuation-in-part of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/420,066, filed on Mar. 14, 2012 entitled “Visualization of Tests on Swing Type Check Valve Using Phased Array Sequence Scanning, now, U.S. Pat. No. 8,904,873, issued Dec. 9, 2014, and a continuation-in-part of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/563,187, filed on Dec. 8, 2014, entitled “Visualization Test of Swing Type Check Valve Using Phased Array Sequence Scanning to Determine If Clapper Nut Is In Place,” now U.S. Pat. No. 9,557,303, and a continuation-in-part of application Ser. No. 14/741,232, filed on Jun. 15, 2015. Also, priority is claimed to Provisional Application for Patent No. 62/341,230, filed May 25, 2016.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Technical Field
This invention relates to the non-intrusive testing of valves and, more particularly, to visualization tests on globe-type check valves using phased array sequence scanning.
Brief Description of the Prior Art
In the past, if someone wanted to see if a valve was operating properly flow through the valve was the first thing checked. If more information was desired, the valve could be taken apart. As technology advanced, other ways of checking the internal operation of the valve was developed. For example, a magnetic field may be used to determine the position of the disc in a check valve as is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 5,236,011. Also, ultrasonic vibrations have been used to monitor check valves to determine if they are operating properly. Even a combination of acoustic and magnetic techniques have been used in the past to monitor the operation of valves (see U.S. Pat. No. 5,008,841).
Many different techniques of using ultrasonics have been developed to determine either the condition or the position of a valve without taking the valve apart. However, these non-intrusive inspection techniques normally did not give all of the information necessary to determine if a valve is operating properly. For example, the hinge pin on which the clapper of a check valve operates may be worn over a period of time. If this condition is not detected before the hinge pin breaks, a catastrophic failure would result. Typical non-intrusive inspection techniques are not able to detect wear on the hinge pin of a disc-type check valve.
In the last few years, the use of phased arrays to generate a wave front of ultrasonic signals has been used in different types of inspection techniques. For example, phased array has been used to measure flow of a fluid through a pipe as is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 7,503,227. Also variable angle ultrasonic transducers have been used in inspection techniques for pipes, conduit, plates or other foreign metallic members that may have irregularities in the surface of the test member (see U.S. Pat. No. 5,392,652).
As the capability of computers has increased dramatically in recent years, the use of a phased array ultrasonic signal has also been used in the testing of various equipment (see U.S. Patent Publication No. U.S. 2009/0045994 A1). The use of phased array for three-dimensional ultrasonic inspection has also begun to be used in the industry (see U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2009/0293621 A1 and U.S. Pat. No. 7,784,347). Even combinations of laser beams and ultrasonic signals have been used in maintenance programs for testing equipment (see U.S. Pat. No. 7,728,967). Ultrasonic phased array has been used for some time in the testing of weld joints in pipes (U.S. Pat. No. 7,412,890).
As the nuclear regulatory industry has developed, a need has also developed for a very reliable method for non-intrusive inspection of the valves in a nuclear power plant. The operators needs to know with certainty that the valves are operating properly. Also, the operators need to know if a valve has begun to wear to the point where the valve should be serviced or repaired. This cannot be done with the inspection techniques that have been developed and used in the past.
If there has been a failure in the proper operation of a valve, that needs to be known so the valve can be repaired. For example a nut holding a clapper on a check valve can come off and the clapper fall to the bottom of the valve.
For lift-type check valves, they may be leaking and the operator does not realize they are leaking. It is important for a lift-type check valve to stop flow when it is supposed to be closed. At the very least, if the lift-type check valve is leaking, the operator wants to know it is leaking.
On Oct. 23, 2010, there was a hot shut-down of a nuclear power reactor at Brown's Ferry in Alabama resulting in what is called a “reactor scram.” As a result of the reactor scram, the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, Office of Reactors, Washington, D.C. issued NRC Information Notice 2012-14, entitled “Motor-Operated Valve Inoperable Due to Stem Disc Separation” on Jul. 24, 2012. As a result of this reactor scram, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has been looking for a way to detect if the stem-globe are in danger of separating. Phased array sequence scanning can be used to determine if the stem and globe are coming apart.
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
It is an object of the present invention to provide a non-intrusive inspection technique for valves.
It is another object of the present invention to provide for testing of swing-type check valves using phased array sequence scanning.
It is another object of the present invention to use a non-intrusive technique of phased array sequence scanning to determine if a valve is operating properly and to provide a visualization of the scan.
It is yet another object of the present invention to provide the use of phased array sequence scanning in a non-intrusive technique to test the proper operation of a valve and to provide a visualization of the test for the operator.
It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a water wedge in combination with phased array sequence scanning to test the proper operation of a swing-type check valve by use of a non-intrusive technique.
It is another object of the present invention to use a water wedge to transmit a phased array sequence scanning to a valve full of fluid to test proper operation of the valve.
A further object of the present invention is to use a bonnet water wedge and a body water wedge to each transmit phased array sequence for scanning to determine if the check valve is full of fluid. If not, then locate the position of the air in the check valve.
It is yet another object of the present invention to have two water wedges alternately transmitting phase array sequence scanning to a valve at least partially filled with fluid to properly test operation of the valve.
It is still another object of the present invention to provide visualization of the operation of the check valve using water wedges to transmit phase array sequence scanning to a valve at least partially filled with fluid to properly test operation of the valve.
It is still another object of the present invention to provide a method of visualizing operation of a check valve using phase array sequence scanning to test proper operation of the check valve.
It is yet another object of the present invention to provide visualization of the operation of a lift-type check valve.
It is another object of the present invention to use phased array sequence scanning on a lift-type check valve to obtain the following:
    1. Data concerning the opening and closing of the lift-type check valve; 2. Position of the lift-type check valve, including determining if the lift-type check valve is leaking; and 3. Comparison of standard data for a lift-type check valve with a lift-type check valve under test to determine if the valve under test is working properly.   
A user setup is provided that consists of a computer properly programmed to create a phased array. The phased array is fed through a pulser with delays to a multiplexor. The multiplexor receives the signals from the pulser and creates a serial set of phased array signals, which phased array signals are sent to a plurality of piezo-electric crystals mounted on a water wedge. A water wedge is a wedge-like structure made from a plastic mixture that has the same refraction index as water.
The water wedge is mounted on a steel plate forming the top of a check valve, also called a bonnet. If the check valve is full of liquid, phased array sequence scanning can be used to monitor the operation of the check valve by receiving reflected signals back through the water wedge via receiving piezo-electric crystals, which receiving piezo-electric crystals provide serial input into the multiplexor. The output of the multiplexor sends parallel signals to a receiver with delays, which received signals are summed in a summation device. The summed signals feeds through a phase array acquisition and control to an image development and display. In the image development and display, the operation of the check valve can be monitored to determine if it is operating properly, or if repairs are necessary.
If the check valve under test is not full of fluid, the use of a water wedge to create phase array sequence scanning will not work. For example, an air pocket could be located at the top of the check valve in which case no signal would be transmitted nor received due to the air inside of the check valve. However, this problem can be overcome by having a pair of water wedges on either side of the check valve, typically one on the bonnet and one on the body, each of which would transmit phase array sequence scanning. If a signal is received from the water wedge to the other, there is no air pocket. However, if a signal is not received from one water wedge to the other, there is an air pocket. The location of the air pocket can be determined by time of travel of reflected signals, which reflected signals will reflect off a surface of the fluid adjacent to the air pocket to provide for reflected signals.
By capturing the information received back, a computer-generated image of a check valve and the operation of the check valve can be created. For example, if a check valve is fluttering, it may flutter so fast that a human being could not detect the fluttering. The sequence would have to be slowed down to the point that it could be seen by most persons. The computer would create a graphic illustration of what is happening inside of the check valve.
A catastrophic failure is a total disengagement of the disc inside a check valve due to a stud, nut or pin failure. A determination of a catastrophic failure can also be determined using phased-array sequence scanning. Probes need to be placed directly above the disc arm and nut assembly so that the phased array will interact with the nut. The nut and arm has a corner-type geometry which will reflect sound energy to typically generate high amplitude reflections. If a high-amplitude reflection is not received at the proper time, it probably indicates the nut is not connected to hold the disc in position. If the nut is not in place, the disc may fall to the bottom of the valve resulting in a catastrophic failure. The high amplitude signal being received from the corner-type geometry of the nut and/or arm at the proper time indicates the nut is still securing the clapper arm in place.
By having a standard reflection signal for a properly operating swing-type check valve using phased-array sequence scanning, proper operation of the swing-type check valve can be determined by comparing the unknown signal to the known signal. If the unknown signal does not resemble the known signal, the swing-type check valve is not operating properly.
Also, the same type of comparison of an unknown reflection signal with a reflection signal of a properly operating valve, it can be determined if the valve is operating properly. This is true for other type valves, such as a globe valve, dual disc valves, gate valves, butterfly valves, or lift-type check valves.
Similar acoustical wave fronts can be used on lift-type check valves that are generated by phased array sequence scanning. A determination can be made concerning the position of the lift-type check valve, including if it is leaking. Exercise data can be obtained in the opening and closing of the lift-type check valve and compared with standard data for the same type lift-type check valve to determine if the lift-type check valve under test is working properly. Even leaks around the seat of the lift-type check valve can be determined using phased array sequence scanning.
Phased array sequence scanning can also be used to determine if other valves are operating properly. For example, on globe valves, signals can be projected down the stem of the valve to determine if the globe has begun to separate from the stem. This determination is made by determining the time it takes for the reflected signal to return to the sensors and comparing to the time it should have taken.
Also, phased array sequence scanning can be used to determine the position of the globe on a globe-type valve, which in turn will determine if the valve is open, closed or some place in between.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 FIG. 1 is a combined pictorial and block diagram illustrating the use of phased array sequence scanning to generate phased array signals in a swing-type check valve.
 FIG. 2 is a combination pictorial and block diagram using phased array sequence scanning to illustrate the receiving of reflected signals resulting from the phased array sequence scanning.
 FIG. 3 is a black and white representation of final color data results for an actual swing-type check valve using phased array sequence scanning.
 FIG. 4 is a black and white representation of a color cross-sectional view of the sound beam interacting with the disc of the check valve whose data is shown in FIG. 3.
 FIG. 5 is a black and white representation of a color analysis of four different check valves using phased array sequence scanning.
 FIG. 6 is a combined pictorial and block diagram illustrating a pulsing probe generating phase array signals in a swing-type check valve and a receiving probe receiving those phase array signals.
 FIG. 7 is the same as FIG. 6, except the function of the receiving probe and the pulsing probe have been reversed.
 FIG. 8 is a combined pictorial and block diagram illustrating the use of a pulsing probe to generate a phase array signal, but receipt of the phase array signal is blocked at the receiving probe by air gap.
 FIG. 9 is the same as FIG. 8, except the function of the pulsing probe and the receiving probe have been reversed.
 FIG. 10 is a combined pictorial and block diagram illustrating the use of a bonnet probe to generate a phase array signal in a swing-type check valve.
 FIG. 11 is a combined pictorial and block diagram illustrating a bonnet probe receiving reflected phase array signals in a swing-type check valve.
 FIG. 12 is a combined pictorial and block diagram illustrating the use of a body probe to generate a phase array signal in a swing-type check valve.
 FIG. 13 is a combined pictorial and block diagram illustrating a body probe receiving reflected phase array signals in a swing-type check valve.
 FIG. 14 is a pictorial block diagram of software used to provide visualization of the operation of a swing-type check valve utilizing phase array sequence scanning.
 FIGS. 15A-15E are pictorial views of a swing-type check valve in different positions illustrating the use of probes and phased array sequence scanning to detect problems, if any.
 FIGS. 16A-16D are combined pictorial and block diagrams illustrating the use of bonnet and/or body probes for sending and/or receiving phased array signals in a swing-type check valve to determine if a clapper nut is in the correct position.
 FIGS. 17A and 17B are combined pictorial type views of a properly operating swing-type check valve with the reflected phased array signals, which can be used to determine if a clapper nut is in position.
 FIGS. 18A-18D are combined pictorial and block diagrams illustrating bonnet and body probes generating phased array signals with one probe generating the signals and the other probe receiving the signals, unless blocked.
 FIGS. 19A and 19B give a combined pictorial view of a swing-type check valve with a catastrophic failure and the phased array signal being received with such catastrophic failure.
 FIGS. 20A and 20B give a combined pictorial view of a properly operating swing-type check valve and the normal signal received using phased array sequence scanning if there is no interference.
 FIG. 21 is a combination of a pictorial and block diagram illustrating the use of phased array sequence scanning to generate phased array signals in a lift-type check valve.
 FIG. 22 is a combination of a pictorial and block diagram illustrating a pulsing probe generating phased array signals in a lift-type check valve and a secondary probe to determine if the push-type check valve is leaking.
 FIG. 23A is a combined pictorial and block diagram illustrating the use of phased array sequence scaning to generate and send phased array signals in a globe valve.
 FIG. 23B is a combined pictorial and block diagram illustrating the use of phased array sequence scaning to receive reflected phased array signals from a globe valve.
 FIG. 24 is a pictorial view of the stem probe used to generate and detect a phased array signal in the stem of a globe valve.
 FIG. 25 is a typical phased array signal being received by the stem probe on a globe valve as illustrated in FIG. 23.
 FIG. 26 is a typical phased array signal being received by the body probe of a globe valve as illustrated in FIG. 23.
 FIG. 27 consists of two different types of phased array signals being received by the body probe of a globe valve illustrated in FIG. 23, the top signal representing movement of the globe and the bottom signal representing a position of the globe at an instant in time.
 FIGS. 28A and 28B give an assembled and disassembled exploded perspective view of the stem and globe of a globe valve as illustrated in FIG. 23.
 FIGS. 29A and 29B give cross-sectional views of the stem and globe illustrated in FIG. 23, FIG. 29A giving the proper connection and FIG. 29B illustrating the near-catastrophic separation of the stem and globe.

DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
Referring now to FIG. 1, a swing-type check valve 10 is being tested by phased array sequence scanner illustrated generally by the reference numeral 12. The phased array sequence scanner 12 has a user setup 14 that will include a computer that is programmed to generate a wave front to be used in testing the swing-type check valve 10. If some other type of valve is being tested, the user setup 14 can be varied and the program changed to generate the particular type of wave front desired for the valve under test.
The wave signal from the user setup 14 feeds to a phased array acquisition and control 16. The phased array acquisition and control 16 takes the instructions from the software contained in the user setup 14 and fires the voltages in a timing sequence as determined by the computer program. The signals from the phased array acquisition and control 16 feed through a pulser with delays 18 to generate spike signal voltages 20 that are fed through multiplexor 22. In the illustration as shown in FIG. 1, a total of eleven voltage spike signals 20 are generated, but this number can vary depending upon design of the phased array sequence scanner 12.
The multiplexor 22 manages the outgoing pulses 24 which fires transmit piezo-electric crystals 26. In the present embodiment, because there are eleven spike voltage signals 20 being received from the pulser with delays 18, there will be eleven transmit piezo-electric crystals 26. In this preferred embodiment, the number of piezo-electric crystals 26 is eleven. However, the number of piezo-electric crystals can vary according to the preference of the end user.
The number of piezo-electric crystals could be as few as three, but the upper end is controlled only by the number of discreet signals that can be transmitted and received. Twenty or thirty piezo-electric crystals could be used almost the same as eleven are being used in this preferred embodiment. The piezo-electric crystals can be naturally occurring such as quartz, but man-made lattices that form a piezo-electric crystal are better because of the quality control.
The transmit piezo-electric crystals 26 are attached to the inclined angle 28 of water wedge 30. The inclined angle 28 can vary from 0° to 70°, but Applicant has found approximately 20° to be ideal. Water wedge 30 is not actually made from water, but is made from a plastic mixture that has the same refraction index as water. Also, the water wedge 30 as illustrated in FIG. 1, is not to scale, but is illustrated in a manner that is approximately ten times its actual size when compared to the swing-type check valve 10 located there below. The water wedge 30 is enlarged for illustration purposes only.
During a normal test, the swing-type check valve 10 will be full of liquid. Because the water wedge 30 has the same refraction index as water, during a test, it will appear as if the top plate 32 of a check valve 10 is not present. This gives a much better signal. Therefore, the water wedge 30 is specifically designed to have approximately the same refraction index as the fluid contained inside of swing-type check valve 10.
In normal operation, the user setup 14 with the computer and program contained therein will cause the phased array acquisition and control 16 to generate signals that fed to the pulses with delays 18 that creates timed spike voltage signals 20 that feed through multiplexor 22. From multiplexor 22, the outgoing pulse signals 24 fire the transmit piezo-electric crystals 26 which generate a wave front in water wedge 30. The wave front flows through top plate 32 and into the chamber 34 of swing-type check valve 10. The wave front 36 is illustrated by the pie-shaped shaded area within chamber 34. The wave front 36 encompasses the disc 38 suspended from pin 40 through the disc arm 42. The wave front 36 will be sequenced over time to follow an entire cycle of a disc 38 within swing-type check valve 10.
Referring now to FIG. 2, in response to the wave front 36, acoustic signals will be received back through the top plate 32 and water wedge 30 to the receiving piezo-electric crystals 44. While the same piezo-electric crystal could be used to receive or transmit, in this preferred embodiment, the receiving piezo-electric crystals 44 are different from the transmitting piezo-electric crystals 26. The acoustic signals received via the receiving piezo-electric crystals 44 through water wedge 30 generate reflection signals 46. The reflection signals 46 are processed through multiplexor 22 to generate return parallel signals 48 that feed into receiver with delays 50. From the receiver with delays 50, reflected signals 52 feed into a summation device 54, which gives a summed output 56 to the phased array acquisition and control 16. The phased array acquisition and control 16 provides an image signal 58 to image development and display 60. The image development and display 60 gives a visual image of what is happening inside of swing-type check valve 10 through its normal operation if phased array sequence scanning is used.
The image development and display 60 uses a combination of signal amplitude and timing to form an image as to the operation of a swing-type check valve. Therefore, time of flight of a particular pulse inside of the swing-type check valve 10 is important as well as the amplitude of each signal.
Referring now to FIG. 3, the image being shown is the image that would be recorded over time during the actual operation of the check valve. If a swing-type check valve is operating properly, a valve closed signal 62 will be generated. As the disc on the valve opens, a valve opening signal 64 shows the travel of the disc when it goes from the closed position to the full open position. When the valve is full open, a valve open signal 66 is generated.
The main signal is associated with the color red. Red means there is a lot energy being returned at that point during the cycle.
During the reverse operation, a valve closing signal 68 is generated which is a downward slope as shown in FIG. 3. When the disc of the swing-type check valve closes, another valve closed signal 70 is generated. However, for the check valve being tested as illustrated in FIG. 3, there is a valve closure delay signal 72 between the valve open signal 66 and the valve closed signal 70. This valve closure delay signal 72 indicates a problem in the valve such as wear of pin 40 shown in previous FIGS. 1 and 2. The valve closure delay signal 72 indicates there is a problem with the valve under test which could be due to wear. Therefore, before a catastrophic failure occurs, the valve should be either repaired or replaced.
By looking at the phased array sequence scanning signal shown in FIG. 3, an operator can quickly tell if (1) the valve being tested is operating properly, (2) the valve being tested is worn or has some other defect and (3) the valve may cause problems in the near future. The signal shown in FIG. 3 is easily understood by the operator.
Referring now to FIG. 4, the pie-shaped figure is actually a cross-sectional view of the sound beam interacting with the valve and valve disc as previously shown in FIG. 3. However, the cross-sectional view shown in FIG. 4 is harder to interpret than the wave form shown in FIG. 3. In FIG. 4, the two red dots 74 actually show the valve gate moving from the full open to the full closed position. It is much more difficult to get meaningful information out of the pie-shaped cross-sectional view shown in FIG. 4, but the image shown in FIG. 3 is easily understood by the operator.
Applicant has found that if the inclined angle 28 of the water wedge 30 is 15°, it provides the good data. The view as shown in FIG. 3 is a volume corrected sound beam at 15°. The sound energy can either be measured at (1) a single angle or (2) all the sound energy can be merged to form one picture. Each has their advantages and disadvantages.
Referring to FIG. 5, the phased array sequence scanning of four different valves 76, 78, 80 and 82 are shown in cycles 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. Cycle one for valve 76 has a normal open cycle as is represented by the incline 84. The full open position 86 is also normal for valve 76. During the closing cycle 88, there is a valve closure delay 90 caused by wear inside of valve 76. The valve closure delay 90 is typical of wear in the pin 40 (see FIGS. 1 and 2) of a swing-type check valve. When fully closed, a closed signal 92 will again be given.
Cycle two is for a normally operating swing-type check valve 78 with no signs of undue wear or any other malfunctions.
However, valve 80, as is represented by gate open and closing cycle three has numerous problems. The gate or disc 38 in valve 80 has a tendency to oscillate near the closed position. The gate oscillation is illustrated by reference numeral 94. Also, when fully opened, the valve 80 again has oscillations at the open position as represented by the numeral 96. During the closure cycle of valve 80, there is gate oscillation at a midway position of the valve as represented by numeral 98. Again, when valve 80 is fully closed, there is again gate oscillations at the closed position as indicated by reference numeral 100. The valve 80 as shown in cycle three is about to have a catastrophic failure. During catastrophic failure any of a number of things could occur such as the disc coming off of the hinge pin or other types of similar failure. A valve operating similar to valve 80 should be replaced immediately.
Valve 82 as represented by cycle four is again a normal functioning valve.
As can be seen by looking at FIGS. 3 and 5, when phased array sequence scanning is used in testing swing-type check valves, the operator can easily see if the valve is functioning properly.
For the phased array sequence scanning to operate properly, the valve being tested should be full of liquid. If there is only liquid upstream of the disc, the valve can still be tested but the water wedge would have to be positioned upstream of the hinge point for the disc.
If it is desired to use the phased array sequence scanning on some other type of valve other than a hinged type check valve, a known signal will have to be generated for a good, properly operating valve. Thereafter, in checking similar type valves, future signals would be compared to the known signal to determine if the valve is operating properly.
Recently, it was discovered that if air exists inside of the swing-type check valve 10, even a small portion under top plate 32, the invention as previously described herein above did not work. As a solution to that problem, in FIG. 6 the swing-type check valve 101 is again pictorially illustrated with a portion cut away for illustration purposes. The swing-type check valve 101 has a clapper 103 pivotally connected on hinge 105 with the direction of flow of the fluid being against the clapper 103 to cause the clapper 103 to open. The top of the swing-type check valve 101 is enclosed by a bonnet 107 (previously referred to herein above as top plate 32). Mounted on the bonnet 107 is a bonnet probe 109. Mounted on the lower part of the body 111 is body probe 113. Bonnet probe 109 and body probe 113 are essentially the same piezoelectric crystals 26 mounted on water wedge 30 as previously described in conjunction with FIGS. 1 and 2. While the position of the bonnet probe 109 and the body probe 113 is not critical, it is important that they oppose each other and that they be capable of generating pulses or receiving pulses from the other probe. In FIG. 6, the pulsing probe is bonnet probe 109. When bonnet probe 109 is pulsed, it generates a wave front 115 moving in the direction of arrows 117 to body probe 113 with body probe 113 being the receiving probe.
The phase array acquisition control 121 sends a signal to the multiplexer 123. The parallel signals 125 feed from multiplexer 123 through pulser with delays 127 to generate phased pulse signals 129. The phased pulse signals 129 are then fed to the bonnet probe 109.
From the body probe 113, these pulse signals 131 are fed to multiplexer 133. From the multiplexer 133 energy pulses 135 are sent to the receiver with delays 137. From the receiver with delays 137, delayed energy pulses 139 are sent to the summer 141. From the summer 141, then the sum 143 is fed through the phase array acquisition control 121 to the pass visualization software 119. If there is an air gap inside of swing-type check valve 101 no signal will be indicated in sum 143.
While the number of channels can vary, eleven channels have been found to work very effectively.
Referring now to FIG. 7, body probe 113 is now the pulsing probe and bonnet probe 109 is now the receiving probe. Where previously wave front 115 had been generated, now wave front 145 is being generated by the body probe 113. Wave front 145 flows in the direction of arrows 147. Sum 143 is received pursuant to the pulsing signal being created by bonnet probe 109 as shown in FIG. 6 or the pulsing signal being from the body probe 113 as shown in FIG. 7. In either case, there is no air inside of the swing-type check valve 101 to interfere with signal transmission.
Referring now to FIG. 8, it is operated the same as FIG. 7, except an air gap 149 exists just under the bonnet 107 of the swing-type check valve 101. Therefore, when the body probe 113 generates a wave front 145 in the direction indicated by arrows 151, the wave front does not make it to bonnet probe 109 because of the air gap 149. There will be no received phase pulse signals 131, no energy pulses 135 and no delayed energy pulses 139. This means that there will be no sum 143 being fed to the phase array acquisition control 121. However, when a wave front 145 hits the air gap 149, a return signal will be reflected back due to the air interface of the air gap 149. The reflected signal will be received back by the body probe 113 through an extra channel in the pulser with delays 127 and an extra channel in the multiplexer 123 and sent back to the phased array acquisition control 121. The time of travel of the reflected signal will indicate exactly where the air gap 149 is located. In FIG. 8, the time of travel of the reflected signal will be the greatest because the air gap 149 is immediately below the bonnet 107.
 FIG. 9 is the same as FIG. 8, except the pulsing probe is now bonnet probe 109 and the receiving probe is body probe 113. There will be no wave fronts 145 or 151 in FIG. 9 because the signal is reflected by air gap 149. However, there will be a reflected signal received in an extra channel of bonnet probe 109. The time of travel of the reflected signal will be less than the time of travel as shown in FIG. 8. In that manner, the location of the air gap 149 inside of swing-type check valve 101 can be calculated using the respective time of travel of reflected signals in FIGS. 8 and 9. The arrows 153 in FIG. 9 are much shorter than the arrows 151 in FIG. 8 because their travel distance is much less. It is that travel distance that allows for a determination as to where the air gap 149 is actually located. In FIG. 9 there is no received phased pulse signals 131, no energy pulses 135, no delayed energy pulses 139 and no sum 143.
Referring now to FIGS. 10 and 11 in sequence, the bonnet probe 109 sends out the scanned pulse data in swing-type check valve 101 in a manner as previously described in connection with FIG. 6, except there is no body probe 113. As shown in FIG. 10, the phase-array acquisition control 121 sends a signal to the multiplexer 123 that generates parallel signals 125 to pulser with delays 127. Pulser with delays 127 sends phased pulse signals 129 to the bonnet probe 109 which generates a wave front 155 in the direction indicated by the arrows 157.
Referring to FIG. 11, the wave front 155 of FIG. 10 is reflected in a reflected wave front 159 as indicated by the reflected arrows 161. The reflected wave front 159 generates through bonnet probe 109 reflected phase pulse signals 163 which are sent to multiplexer 133. From multiplexer 133, the reflected energy pulses 165 are sent to the receiver with delays 137 to give reflected/delayed energy pulses 167 which are fed into a summer 141. From the summer 141, a reflected sum 169 is sent to the phase array acquisition control 121 and on to the pass visualization software 119.
 FIGS. 12 and 13 are the opposite of FIGS. 10 and 11, where the bonnet probe 109 has been removed and a body probe 113 has been attached. As shown in FIG. 12, the wave front 171 is in the direction of the arrows 173. In FIG. 13, the reflected wave front 175 is in the direction of the arrows 177. Otherwise, everything is the same in FIGS. 12 and 13 as is in FIGS. 10 and 11, respectively.
When the bonnet probe 109 is acting as shown in FIGS. 10 and 11, or the body probe is acting as shown in FIGS. 12 and 13, this is referred to as the “pitch-and-catch” mode. Basically the transmitting probe is also receiving a reflected signal in this “pitch-and-catch” mode. If there is an air pocket, the pitch-and-catch mode would result in a reflected signal being reflected off of the surface of the air pocket. The time of travel of the reflected signal determines exactly where the air pocket is located. The air water interface is what will cause the reflected signal.
Referring now to FIG. 14, the pass visualization software 119 will be explained in more detail. In the representation shown in FIG. 14, the larger blocks on the left side indicate major steps and the smaller blocks on the right subcomponents of the major steps. During the import model into blender 200, the parametric model of the valve being tested is imported into the pass visualization software 119. As part of the import model into blender 200, valve sizing/location 202 is determined along with sizing disc and arm 204 and if the disc is properly placed in valve 206. Normally, the internal operation of the valve cannot be seen. Therefore, in the pass visualization software 119, a step of modifying the valve for viewing 208 many times will be necessary. In this step, the clapper 103 and hinge 105 (see FIG. 6) will be made visible by cutting away a part of the valve body 111, or make the valve body 111 translucent, so that the clapper 103 can be seen along with its movement. In other words, operation of the valve is made visible for viewing by the operator in modified valve for viewing 208.
In the sizing disc and arm 204, the size of the swing-type check valve 101 can be varied to within the constraints of the pass visualization software 109. In other words, the operator could zoom in or out and is limited only by the constraints of the viewing window. By placing the disc properly in valve 206, the operator is simply making sure that the disc is properly located inside of the swing-type check valve 101.
In the export data from Univision 210, Univision is the data acquisition software that is being utilized in the present invention, with Univision being the brand name. Data is being exported from Univision software into the pass visualization software 119. The angle is selected at which to promulgate the sound waves. The angle determines resolution with each angle interacting with movements of the swing-type check valve 101. Each angle interacts with the movements within the swing-type check valve 101 in different ways. Therefore, during the data collection process, a large number of angles may be used to acquire data during the movement of the clapper 103 in the swing-type check valve 101. For example, the operator may select a 10° angle so that the impinging sound wave would be at 10°. In this manner, the reaction of the clapper being impinged at a 10° sound angle may be evaluated. One or multiple degrees 212 can also be used and data recovered for the multiple degrees 212 of the sound angle. Programs can be selected with one degree or multiple degrees in operating the program.
Also, time of flight of the signal inside of the swing-type check valve 101 may vary depending upon the size of the check valve. Time of flight in a 10 inch diameter check valve will be different than the time of flight in a 20 inch diameter check valve. Therefore, a limiting A-scans to range 214 is set for whatever size check valve is being monitored. Noise beyond the normal time of flight can be cut off so that only the important information is considered.
As the pass visualization software 119 is being set up, open source software may be used. Therefore, an import data into blender 216 is included as the data is being compiled in a compiler and the software being set up. During that step of setting up the software, a number of functions occur such as formatting 218 or determining the number of points that are being imported at a given angle may be included. Also, high resolution or low resolution may be determined by the noise cancel 220, which may occur within the algorithm of the software. For example, the noise signals may be eliminated so that a true reflection signal from the clapper is what will be received. Noise will be anything that is not necessary to the analysis which hopefully could be reduced or eliminated.
After formatting 218 and noise cancel 220, then the create array 222 will determine the array of the data being used to determine movement of the clapper 103 in the swing-type check valve 101 occurs.
Many times the movement of the clapper can be at a high rate of speed that would be invisible to the eye of the operator. Therefore, a time scale by user input 224 is included so that the movement of the clapper can be slowed down in the visualization software 119 so that it can be seen by the operator. The output from the time scale by user input 224 can be manipulated by the operator by user control data manipulation 226. For example, if the clapper 103 is fluttering, the operator through user control data manipulation 226 can make that fluttering appear to be faster or slower. The objective in the time scale by user input 224 and the user control data manipulation 226 is to create a visual representation for the operator in speeds the operator can comprehend.
In the data processing 228, the operator will take the data to see if it's in a format that can be understood by the operator with functions such as time of flight, number of seconds, framing, and resolution. If everything appears to be operating properly, then the operator does not need to make any adjustments. However, that is normally not the case. For example, it may be necessary for time scaling 230, flutter frequency 232 or noise reduction 234. The scale of each of these can be set by the appropriate algorithm.
Simultaneously, the user selected angle 236 is set up so that a particular angle phased array would be used. The number of angles at which the phased array will be presented can be selected by the operator. All of these selected functions are then fed into the algorithm optimization 238, which is used to optimize the information that goes back to the operator.
In export data from blender 240, the motion of the clapper 103 and the swing-type check valve 101 is being replicated in a movie sequence. That is exported through a report generation 242, which active generation has a change file extension 244 prior to data archiving 246. The report generation 242 is what would be signed by check valve engineer indicating that the check valve is working properly. That approved report will then be stored in data archiving 246. By storing the report generation 242 in the data archiving 246, years later someone can come back and see if the swing-type check valve 101 was properly inspected. Also, there is a predictive maintenance tool. Upon viewing the operation of the swing-type check valve 101 as it operates today versus five years from now, the operator can tell if wear is beginning to cause a problem in the swing-type check valve. That is why the change file extension 244 occurs to lock down the data in a particular form.
While it appears that everything is now complete, there are still other major functions such as user interface 248 and compliance testing 250. In the user interface 248, the user could optimize work flow 252 or engage in source code modification 254. It is believed that there may be modifications to the source code based upon feedback by the end user. Things that it are anticipated the end user may want to change would be to insert custom buttons 256, remove unnecessary features 260 or use of the default of IHI logo interrogation 262. Everything to the right of source code modification 254 are various ways the end user can customize their pass visualization software 119. For example, the end user may want to set up their own user panels 258 with bidirectional testing 264 which may be required for swing-type check valves 101 by the regulators. In other words, there must be flow in one direction and attempted flow in the other direction. Also, the user might want specialized views 266, such as yaw 268, analysis 270 or fluttering 272. For example, if the fluttering is extremely fast, the end user may want to have a special view set up concerning the fluttering. All of these custom enhancements the engineer may want to use to determine if the swing-type check valve 101 is operable or needs to be scheduled for maintenance.
Enhanced feature setups 274 allow the user to open data from different valves and analyze them the same way using the same setup. In other words, the end user would set up the software for his particular needs and continue to use it in that manner until it is determined no additional modifications are needed. The status bar 276 simply shows the setup that the end user currently has for his pass visualization software 119.
The object of the user interface 248 and all of the functions from optimized work flow 252 through status bar 276 is to allow the user to set up his pass visualization software in the manner suitable for his needs. This is very similar to someone getting a new computer and setting up the functions in the new computer.
In compliance testing 250, this is to comply with 10 CFR, Appendix B in the Code of Federal Regulations. Since the pass visualization software 119 is being applied in a nuclear power plant, the software must be validated for accuracy, repeatability. Therefore, there is repeatability testing 278, accuracy testing 282 and benchmark processing requirements 280. The bench mark processing requirements 280 is for use by a processor to replicate movement of a swing-type check valve 101 so there can be bench testing. For example, an older type computer may not be able to handle the processing speeds, but a newer, faster computer might be able to handle the speeds. In accuracy testing 282, the accuracy of the system can be determined. For example, if there is 100 cycles/sec. Flutter by the clapper 103 might be represented by two cycles as shown by the operator, but the ratio of the two cycles being equal to 100 cycles needs to be known by the operator.
The object of the pass visualization software 119 is to collect the data in swing-type check valve 101 to show operation of the clapper 103 in a manner that can be readily understood by the operator. For items that are operating at speeds faster than the eye can see such as flutter, those operations will be slowed down so they can be visualized by the operator. Each of the functions that are occurring in swing-type check valve 101 occurs at a speed that can be comprehended by the end user.
Referring now to FIGS. 15A-15E, pictorial views of different swing-type check valves are shown which use probes and phased-array sequence scanning to detect problems, if any. Like numerals will be used to refer to like components for FIGS. 15A-15E. Starting with FIG. 15A, a swing-type check valve 300 is shown. The swing-type check valve 300 has a body 302 with a bonnet 304 held on the top thereof by bolts 306. Inside of the swing-type check valve 300 is a clapper 308 attached to pivot pin 310 by clapper arm 312 and nut 314. When the clapper 308 is in the closed position, it rests against seat 316. A bonnet probe 318 is attached to the top of the bonnet 304. The bonnet probe 318 directs phased-array signals 320 towards the nut 314 holding the clapper 308 in position. The nut 314 is threadably attached to threads 332 of a threaded clapper shaft 315.
 FIG. 15A shows a swing-type check valve 300 that operates in the normally opened position. By use of phased-array sequence scanning, the proper operation of the swing-type check valve 300 shown in FIG. 15A can be checked even though the valve 300 may be fluttering due to constant flow there through with the valve 300 being in the normally opened position. This is sometimes referred to as the PASS bidirectional dynamic test.
Referring now to FIG. 15B, the same numerals as used in FIG. 15A will again be used where appropriate. In FIG. 15B, in addition to the bonnet probe 318, there is also a body probe 322. By the transmission of the phased array sequential scanning signals 324 between body probe 322 and bonnet probe 318, a determination can be made if there is gas inside of the swing-type check valve 300. This was previously described in conjunction with FIGS. 6, 7, 8 and 9. If there is a gas pocket at the top of the swing-type check valve 300 shown in FIG. 15B, the air pocket will be located.
Referring now to FIG. 15C, a catastrophic failure has occurred. Again, the same numerals as used in FIG. 15A will be used in FIG. 15C where appropriate. The nut 314 (see FIGS. 15A and 15B) that holds the clapper 308 in place has come lose and the clapper 308 has fallen to the bottom of the valve body 302. The location of the clapper 308 (also referred to as “foreign material”) can be located inside of the valve body 302 as will be explained in more detail subsequently. If there is foreign material inside of the valve body 302, the signal 324 will be interrupted. The approximate size and location of the foreign material can be determined.
Referring to FIGS. 15D and 15E together, location of the nut 314 on the clapper arm 312 is determined. In FIG. 15D, the body probe 322 sends a lower phased array signal 326 to be reflected off of the nut 314 and its attachment to the threaded clapper shaft 315 of the clapper 308 holding the clapper 308 onto the clapper arm 312.
In FIG. 15E, an upper phased array signal is transmitted from the bonnet probe 318 off of the nut 314 and the threaded clapper shaft 315. Again, the integrity of the nut 314 attaching the clapper 308 to the clapper arm 312 is measured.
In both FIGS. 15D and 15E, the time of flight of the signal to the nut 314 and the reflected return signal are measured. If the reflected signals are different than the normal signals from a properly operating swing-type check valve, then the operator will know there is a problem with the swing-type check valve 300 as shown in FIGS. 15D and 15E. In other words, the signals being received back should compare favorably with the normal reflected signals. Typically, the signal that should be received back would reflect off of the cornering effect being formed between the threaded clapper shaft 315 and the nut 314 so that a dual peak signal is received. This will be explained in more detail herein below.
Referring now to FIGS. 16A-16D, a series of sequential drawings are shown to determine if the nut 314 is in place on the clapper arm 312. The same numerals applied to different components in FIG. 6 will be used in FIG. 16A with numerals in the 300 range being applied to components described for the first time in FIGS. 16A-16D.
In FIG. 16A, the phase array acquisition control 121 triggers the multiplexer 123 which sends parallel signals 125 to pulser with delays 127 to generate phased pulse signals 129. The phased pulse signals 129 are sent to the bonnet probe 109 which generates upper phased array scanning signals 330. The upper phased array scanning signals 330 are directed at the nut 314 threadably connected to the clapper arm 312 by threads 332 of a threaded clapper shaft 315 projecting from the backside of clapper 308.
Referring now to FIG. 16B, the same numerals as applied to different components in FIG. 7 will be used in FIG. 16B with numerals in the 300 range being applied to components described for the first time in FIGS. 16A-16D.
The upper phased array signals 330 (as shown in FIG. 16A) create or cause upper reflected signals 334 shown in FIG. 16B. The upper reflected signals 334 occur when the upper phased array scanning signals 330 interact with the geometry of the nut 314, clapper arm 312, threaded clapper shaft 315 and threads 332. The upper reflected signal 334 is received in the bonnet probe 109 and sent as reflected phase pulse signals 163 to multiplexer 133. From the multiplexer energy pulses 165 are sent to receiver with delays 137, which in turn gives reflected delay energy pulses 167. The reflected delay energy pulses 167 are summed in summer 141 to give reflected energy sum 169 in phased array acquisition control 121. The phased array acquisition control 121 through PASS visualization software 119 portrays a visual image as to what is incurring internally within swing-type check valve 101.
Referring to FIG. 16C, the same numerals apply to different components in FIG. 12 will be used in FIG. 16C with numerals in the 300 range being applied to components described for the first time in FIGS. 16A through 16D. A phased array acquisition control 121 sends a signal to multiplexer 123 which creates parallel signals 125. The parallel signals 125 are sent to pulser with delays 127 to create phased pulse signals 129. The phased pulse signals 129 are fed to body probe 113 which generates lower phased array scanning signals 336. The lower phased array scanning signal 336 interacts with nut 314, clapper arm 312, threaded clapper shaft 315 and threads 332 to give a lower reflected signal 338 (see FIG. 16D). In the event there is a gas void in the top of swing-type check valve 101 so that it is not possible to get the upper reflected signal 334 as shown in FIG. 16B, it is still possible to get a lower reflected signal 338 as long as the fluid within the swing-type check valve 101 covers the nut 314 as shown in FIG. 16D.
In FIG. 16D, the lower reflected signal 338 is shown illustrating the reflection of lower phased array scanning signals 336 (see FIG. 16C) back to the body probe 113. In FIG. 16D, the same numerals as applied to different components in FIG. 13 will be used in FIG. 16D with numerals in the 300 range being applied to components described for the first time in FIGS. 16A through 16D.
The body probe 113 sends the reflected phased pulse signals 163 to multiplexer 133. The multiplexer 133 sends reflected energy pulses 165 to receiver with delays 137. The receiver with delays 137 sends reflected delayed energy pulses 167 to summer 141. The summer 141 sends a reflected energy sum 169 to phased array acquisition control 121. The phased array acquisition control 121 through PASS visualization software 119 will give a visual indication as to what is occurring inside of wing-type check valve 101.
 FIGS. 17A and 17B illustrate what the upper reflected signal 334 in the swing-type check valve would produce (see FIG. 16B). The only difference between FIGS. 17A and 17B is that the bonnet probe 109 (see FIG. 16A) has been rotated 90 degrees.
Referring first to FIG. 17A, the reflected energy sum 169 of FIG. 16B is shown in the plot illustrated on the right. FIG. 17A represents an end view of the swing-type check valve 101 where the upper phased array scanning signals 330 (see FIG. 16A) interacts with the nut 314, clapper arm 312, threaded clapper shaft 315 and threads 332 to give upper reflected signals 334 (see FIG. 16B) which are illustrated in reflected energy sum 169 shown to the right. The reflected energy sums 169 have dual peaks where (1) the nut 314 interacts with threads 332 and (2) where the nut 334 interacts with the clapper arm 312. Those corner reflections give high-amplitude signals as represented by the dual peaks labeled “NUT/BOLT THREAD” and “ARM/NUT CORNER SIGNAL.” If the dual peaks as shown in the reflected energy sum 169 do not exist, then something is wrong with the swing-type check valve 101 and should be investigated immediately.
 FIG. 17B is the same as FIG. 17A, except the bonnet probe 109 has been rotated 90 degrees to give a side view of the clapper 308, clapper arm 312, nut 314 and threads 332. The same dual peak signals of the reflected energy sums 169 are shown in FIG. 17B.
If the reflected energy sum 169 as shown in FIGS. 17A and 17B do not compare favorably with the normal signal, this indicates that something is wrong with the swing-type check valve 101. If there is no signal, it is an indication that the nut 314 may have come off and the clapper 308 is disconnected.
If the reflected energy sum 169 looks different than the normal signal, but still has less distinctive dual peaks, this may be an indication that the nut 314 is coming loose, but has not completely come off. This is determined by comparing the reflected energy sum 169 with a normal signal, which will occur within the PASS visualization software 119. The normal signal from a good swing-type check valve is always used for comparison with the reflected energy sum 169 to determine if the swing-type check valve under test is operating properly.
Using the same principles as described herein above, phased array sequential scanning signals can be used to determine if other types of valves (other than swing-type check valves) are operating properly. It will be necessary to obtain a standard or normal signal for a similar type of valve to the one under test. That standard or normal signal will then be compared with the signal for the valve being tested. If the signals match, the valve under test is operating properly. If the signals do not match, the valve under test needs to be investigated further, including possible removal or repair.
A globe valve is a type of valve used for regulating flow in a pipeline. A globe valve consists of a moveable disc-type element and a stationary ring seat in a generally spherical body. A globe valve is also referred to as “throttling” valve. If the disc-type element begins to disintegrate, the capability to control flow through the globe valve is lost. Phased array sequential scanning signals may be projected into a globe valve. Reflected signals are then compared to standard signals from a similar, properly operating, globe valve. If the signals are the same, the globe valve under test is operating properly.
The above-described monitoring system for using phased array sequential scanning signals can also be used to determine the proper operation of dual disc valves. In dual disc valves, the reflected signal can be compared to a known standard. However, another method of comparison is to compare one disc against the other disc of a dual disc valve. Typically, each half works independently. One half will normally start malfunctioning before the other half. By comparing the reflected signals for each disc in a dual disc valve, if the signals are not the same, this is an indication that the dual disc valve is not operating properly. For example, if the spring against one disc is broken (or weaker than the other) an anomaly will be shown. This tells the operator there is a problem with the dual disc valve being inspected. If there is fluttering of the dual disc valve, that will also be indicated in the reflected signal. By comparing one half of the dual disc valve with the other half, proper operation of a dual disc valve can be determined.
Using the above-described monitoring system to inspect butterfly valves, a reflected signal can be compared to a known standard. However, another method of comparison would be to compare one-half of the butterfly valve against another half of the butterfly valve. Typically, each half works independently. Almost all of time, if a butterfly valve starts malfunctioning, it is because one half (not both halves) is starting to malfunction. By comparing the reflected signals for each half (one against the other) and if the reflected signals are not the same, this is an indication that the butterfly valve is not working properly. This tells the operator the butterfly valve should be inspected to determine the problem.
A gate valve is a valve that opens by lifting a wedge out of the path of the fluid. The sealing surfaces between the gate and the seats are planar. Gate valves are often used when a straight line flow of the fluid with minimal resistance is desired. Gate valves are primarily used to prevent flow of fluids, not to regulate fluid flow. Again, phased array sequential scanning signals as described above can be used to determine if a gate valve is operating properly by comparing any reflected signals against a known standard of a properly operating gate valve. In a gate valve when properly closed there is no distance between the gate and the body. If there is some small amount of flow, that indicates the gate is not closing properly and should be investigated.
Using similar principles of phased array sequential scanning signals, and comparing a reflected signal against a known standard, other types of valves can also be investigated to determine if they are operating properly.
 FIGS. 18A-18D illustrate how one can determine if there is foreign material inside of the swing-type check valve 101. The same numerals applied to different components in FIG. 6 will be used in FIG. 18A with numerals in the 300 range being applied to components described for the first time in FIGS. 18A-18D. The phased array acquisition control 121 sends a signal to the multiplexer 123, which generates parallel signals 125 therefrom. The parallel signals 125 are received in the pulser with delays 127 which generates phased pulse signals 129. The phased pulse signals 129 are fed into the bonnet probe 109 to create phased array signal 340. The phased array signals 340 are picked up by the body probe 113 sent by received phased pulse signals 131 to multiplexer 133. From multiplexer 133, energy pulses 135 through receiver with delays 137 creates delayed energy pulses 139. The summer 141 gives a feedback sum 143 to phased array acquisition control 121. The receiving of the phased array signals 340 will only occur if there is no foreign material present in the swing-type check valve 101.
 FIG. 18B is the same as FIG. 18A, except now the phased array signal 342 is generated by body probe 113 upon receiving phased pulse signals 129 from pulser with delays 127. Pulser with delays 127 receives parallel signals 125 from multiplexer 123, which is triggered by phased array acquisition control 121. On the opposite side of the swing-type check valve 101, bonnet probe 109 received phased array signals 342, which are the same as received phase pulse signals 131 fed to multiplexer 133. From multiplexer 133, energy pulses 135 feed to receiver with delays 137 to created delayed energy pulses 139. The delayed energy pulses 139 are summed within summer 141 to give a sum 143. The sum 143 feeds to the phased array acquisition control 121. By feeding the information into the PASS visualization software 119, a determination as to the proper operation of the swing-type check valve 101 can be determined. Specifically, if foreign material is inside of swing-type check valve 101, a signal will not be received.
Referring now to FIG. 18C, foreign material exclusion 344 is shown in the bottom of the swing-type check valve 101. Foreign material exclusion 344 may be any type of foreign material that is inside of swing-type check valve 101 that should not be there. The phased array acquisition control 121 sends a signal to the multiplexer 123 to generate parallel signals 125. The parallel signals 125 through the pulser width delays 127 generates phased pulse signals 129. The phased pulse signals 129 feed to the bonnet probe 109 which in turn generates phased array signals 346. However, because the foreign material 344 is blocking the phased array signals 346 as is shown in FIG. 18C, no phased pulse signals 131 will be received in body probe 113. As a result, the multiplexer 133 will not send emergency pulses 135 to receiver with delays 137 which prevents the delayed energy pulses 139 from being received in the summer 141. Hence, no sum signal 143 will be received by the phased array acquisition control 121. By measuring the time of flight of the phased array signals 346, the exact location of the foreign material 344 can be determined. By measuring the time of transmission of the phased array signals 346 plus return reflected signals (not shown), the top of the foreign material 344 can be determined.
In FIG. 18D, the foreign material exclusion 344 is in the bottom of a swing-type check valve 101. The operation of FIG. 18C is identical to the operation of FIG. 18D, except the phased array signals 346 are being projected from the body probe 113, not a bonnet probe 109. With the use of FIG. 18D, even if there is an air pocket inside of swing-type check valve 101, a determination can be made if foreign material is in the bottom of a swing-type check valve 101. The bottom surface of the foreign material 344 can be determined by the time of travel of the phased array signals 346 plus return reflected signals (not shown) as illustrated in FIG. 18D.
The size of a foreign material 344 can also be approximated. The thickness of the foreign material 344 is determined by (a) the time of flight of the phased array signal 346 from bonnet probe 109 to the foreign material 344 as shown in FIG. 18C and (b) the time of flight of the phased array signal 346 from body probe 113 to the foreign material 344 as shown in FIG. 18D. In making this determination, time for the signal to be reflected must also be included.
The bottom of the foreign material 344 can be determined by the time of flight of the phased array signals 346 to the foreign material 344 and back to the body probe 113. By determining the top and the bottom of the foreign material 344, the thickness of the foreign material can be determined.
The general shape of the foreign material 344 can be determined by moving the bottom probe 113 around on the bottom side of swing-type check valve 101. When there is no longer interference by the foreign material 344 with the phased array signals 346 from the body probe 113, that determines the outer boundary of the foreign material. By continuing to move the body probe 113, the outer boundaries of the foreign material 344 can be approximated. While this approximation can be done in some degree using the bonnet probe 109, the body probe 113 is much more effective in determining the shape in the foreign material 344. By using the measurements as just described, a very close profile of the foreign material 344 can be determined.
Any foreign material that may be found in the swing-type check valve may either be (1) component parts of the check valve or (2) foreign material that has washed into the swing-type check valve due to the fluid flow.
Referring to FIG. 20B, a properly operating swing-type check valve 101 is shown. From the bonnet probe 109, the wave front 115 is projected inside of the swing-type check valve 101. Likewise, wave front 145 is projected upward from the body probe 113. If the swing-type check valve 101 shown in FIG. 20B is operating properly, it will produce the signals as shown in FIG. 20A. The left signal 348 is a signal at a 0 degree angle and is called a scrolling B scan. The center signal 350 is a non-corrected sectorial scan. The center signal shows all of the interaction of all the angles in the swing-type check valve 101. The right signal 352 is called an A scan and represents raw data in the form of a signal trace. The right signal 352 indicates a phased array signal has been reflected with right signal 352 representing the reflection. The signals obtained in FIG. 20A as represented by the left signal 348, center signal 350 and the right signal 352 becomes the standard by which the swing-type check valve 101 (as shown in FIG. 20B) should be measured. All other similar type check valves, whether 2 inch, 8 inch or 20 inch, can be applied to the standard if there is a correction for distance of travel. After accounting for time of travel, the signal behaviors are the same, whether a 2 inch check valve or a 20 inch check valve.
In FIG. 19B, a check valve 101 is shown, but the clapper 308 is no longer connected to the clapper arm 312. The nut (not shown) has come off and the clapper 308 has fallen to the bottom of the body 111. For the swing-type check valve 101 as shown in FIG. 19B, the left signal 354 has disappeared at the bottom because of the foreign material (i.e., clapper 308). The center signal 356, which is an uncorrected sectorial scan, does not give any evidence of a signal. The right signal 358 indicates “no signal” because the signal has been interrupted by the foreign matter (i.e., clapper 308). There is no raw data in the right signal 358. This indicates a catastrophic failure of swing-type check valve 101 as shown in FIG. 19B.
 FIG. 21 is the same as FIG. 1, except the valve being tested is a lift-type check valve 400, not a swing-type check valve 10 as shown in FIG. 1. When the component parts shown in FIG. 21 are the same as shown in FIG. 1, they will have the same reference numerals.
Referring to FIG. 21, the lift-type check valve 400 is being tested by a phased array sequence scanner illustrated generally by the reference numeral 12. The phased array sequence scanner 12 has a user set up 14 that includes a computer programmed to generate a wave front to be used in testing lift-type check valves 400. If some other type of valve is being tested, the user set up 14 can be varied and the program changed to generate the particular type of wave front desired for the test.
The wave signal from the user set up 14 feeds to a phased array acquisition and control 16. The phased array acquisition and control 16 takes instructions from the user setup 14 and generates the voltages in a timing sequence as determined by a computer program. The signals from the phased array acquisition control 16 feeds through a pulser with delays 18 to generate spike signal voltages 20 that are fed through multiplexer 22. As illustrated in both FIGS. 1 and 21, a total of eleven spike voltages 20 are generated, but this number can vary depending upon the design of the phased array sequence scanner 12.
The multiplexer 22 manages the outgoing pulses 24 which operates piezoelectric crystals 26. In the present embodiment shown in FIG. 21, because there are eleven spike voltages 20 being received from the pulser with delays 18, there will be eleven piezoelectric crystals 26. In this preferred embodiment, the number of piezoelectric crystals 26 is eleven; however, the number of piezoelectric crystals can be varied.
The piezoelectric crystals 26 are attached to the incline angle 28 of the water wedge 30. The water wedge 30 is specifically designed to have approximately the same reflective index as the fluid contained inside of the lift-type check valve 400.
Referring to FIG. 21, the water wedge 30 is attached to the bonnet 402 of the lift-type check valve 400. The lift-type check valve 400 has a body 404 that has an inlet 406 and outlet 408. As pressurized fluid comes into the inlet 406, the piston 410 moves off of the valve seat 412 up into piston chamber 414.
By use of the phased array sequence scanner 12 shown in FIG. 21 (the same as occurred in FIG. 1), a wave front flows through the bonnet 402, piston chamber 414 and piston 410 into the valve seat 412 of the body 404.
Just as a reflected signal was received back in FIG. 2, a reflected signal can be received back in FIG. 21. The reflected signal in FIG. 21 would be processed similar to the reflected signal in FIG. 2, but with suitable delays for a lift-type check valve. As illustrated in FIG. 21, a lift-type check valve 400 can be checked the same as a clapper type check valve as previously illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2.
By opening and closing the lift-type check valve 400 as shown in FIG. 21, data can be obtained for the opening and closing of a similar lift-type check valve. If standard data is available for a properly operating lift-type check valve, it can be compared to the data as received for lift-type check valve 400 to determine if lift-type check valve 400 is working properly.
The most common problem that occurs for lift-type check valves 400 is leakage between the valve seat 412 and the piston 410. While using the embodiment as shown in FIG. 21 and another embodiment similar to FIG. 2 (but with a lift-type check valve), a good indication can be obtained as to whether the lift-type check valve 400 is working properly.
Using FIG. 22, it is possible to tell to greater accuracy if there is leakage in a lift-type check valve.
In FIG. 22 a different lift-type check valve 416 is illustrated. The lift-type check valve 416 has a body 418 with a flow passage 420 there through. There is an inlet 422 and outlet 424 in the body 418 connecting to the flow passage 420. A top 426 threadably connects to stem 428 of body 418 in which a valve piston 430 is located. The valve piston 430 is pushed against valve seat 432 by piston spring 434. To keep the valve 430 centered inside of stem 428, an upper guide 436 is located in guide cylinder 438 below the top 426. The upper guide 436 is threadably connected to the valve piston 430. Spring 434 continues to urge the upper guide 436 and the valve piston 430 against the valve seat 432 to stop flow through the flow passage 420. Sufficient pressure must be received at the inlet 422 to raise the valve piston 430 off of the valve seat 432 before flow will occur through flow passage 420.
To determine if the lift-type check valve 416 as shown in FIG. 22 is working properly, a multiplexer 440, similar to the multiplexers previously described, transmits outgoing pulse signals 442 into crystals 444 of a top probe 443 that are mounted on water wedge 446 to give a wave front 448 that is projected into the lift-type check valve 416. Through crystals 444 and wedge 446, the wave front 448 will generate a wave front very similar to the wave front generated in FIG. 1, but for a lift-type check valve 416.
Just as FIGS. 6 and 7 show the use of a body probe 113, FIG. 22 also has a body probe represented generally by reference numeral 450. The body probe 450 may receive pulse signals from multiplexer 440 into crystals 452 that are transmitted through water wedge 454 to generate wave front 456 inside of the lift-type check valve 416. By the use of a body probe 450 and a top probe 443, the proper operation of the lift-type check vale 416 can be determined in the same manner as the proper operation of the swing type check valve shown in FIGS. 6, 7, 8 and 9 was determined. More particularly, because the body probe 450 is mounted adjacent to the valve seat 432, a determination can be made as to whether the valve piston 430 is pressing against the valve seat 432 to prevent leakage through the flow passage 420 when the lift-type check valve 416 is supposed to be closed.
The lift-type check valve 416 as shown in FIG. 22 can be opened and closed and data obtained. If this data is then compared to standard data for a properly operating, same size, same type, lift-type check valve, a determination can be made as to whether the lift-type check valve 416 is operating properly.
Just as the data illustrated in FIGS. 3, 4 and 5 illustrate whether swing-type check valves are operating properly, similar type data can be obtained for the lift-type check valve 416 to determine if it is operating properly.
Phased array sequence scanning can also be used to determine if the stem is connected to the globe in a globe valve. Referring to FIGS. 23A and 23B, a globe valve is represented generally by the numeral 500. The globe valve 500 has a body 502 with a flow passage 504 therethrough. In the flow passage 504 is located a seat 506 against which the seat contact 508 of the globe 510 will press.
A bonnet 512 is secured to the body 502 by bolts 514. A cap 516 is threadably connected into the top of the bonnet 512. A valve stem 518 is received in the valve stem passage 520 of the bonnet 512. The valve stem passage 520 also extends up through cap 516. Valve stem seals 522 ensure there is no leakage of fluid around the valve stem 518. Spring 524 around valve stem 518 keeps pressure between cap 516 and bonnet 512.
Referring momentarily to FIGS. 28A and 28B, a perspective view, assembled and disassembled, of the valve stem 518 and globe 510 is shown. The stem 518 has an end flange 526 that is held inside of globe 510 by threaded nut 528. The threaded nut 528 presses against the end flange 526 and is threadably received inside of globe 510.
Referring to FIG. 29A, globe 510 is properly connected to valve stem 518 and held in position by threaded nut 528 is illustrated. In a properly operating globe valve 500, there is some movement by the globe 510 between the seat 506 and the seat contact 508. In the ideal configuration shown in FIG. 29A, the end 530 of the valve stem 518 has some distance separating the end 530 of the valve stem 518 from the bottom 532 of the receiving theaded passage 534 of the globe 510. The receiving threaded passage 534 receives the theads 536 of the threaded nut 528 which presses against the end flange 526 of stem 518. The distance between the end 530 of the valve stem 518 and the bottom 532 of the globe 510 allows some flexibility between the seat 506 and the seat contact 508.
Once the valve stem 518 and the globe 510 are properly assembled, they are held together by weld 538. The distance between the bottom 532 of the globe 510 and the end 530 of the valve stem 518 is represented by the letter “d”. As long as the weld 538 holds, the distance “d” will be maintained. In the “reactor scan” that occurred at Brown's Ferry in Alabama, the weld 538 broke from the valve stem 518. Thereafter, the threaded nut 528 backed off until the valve stem 518 became separated from the globe 510.
Referring to FIG. 29B, weld 538 has broken from the valve stem 518, thereby allowing threaded nut 528 to back out of receiving theaded passage 534 of globe 510. Immediately prior to threads 536 separating from receiving threaded passage 534, the separation between bottom 532 and end 530 is distance d′. Distance d′ shown in FIG. 29B is substantially greater than distance “d” shown in FIG. 29A.
Referring back to FIG. 23A, a phased array acquisition control 540 triggers the multiplexer 542 which generates parallel signals 544. The parallel signals 544 are received by pulsar with delays 546 to generate phase pulse signals 548. The phased pulse signals 548 feed through switch 550 to either body probe 552 or stem probe 554.
In nuclear power plants, a globe valve 500 would be operated by motor (not shown) that would turn valve stem 518. The turning of valve stem 518 will raise or lower the globe 510. By clamping a stem probe 554 onto the valve stem 518 at a given location above cap 516, phased array pulse signals 548 can be sent through switch 550 to the stem probe 554. In the valve stem 518, a wave front 556 flows down the valve stem 518. Some of the wave front will be reflected off of the end 530 of the valve stem 518, but other portions of the wave front 556 will travel through the fluid 558 and be reflected off of the bottom 532 of the globe 510 too give a reflected wave front 560. An enlarged view of the wave front 556 and reflected wave front 560 is given in FIG. 29A.
Referring to FIG. 23B, a reflective wave front 560 travels back up the valve stem 518 and is received by the stem probe 554. From the stem probe 554, the reflected wave front 560 flows through switch 550 to multiplexer 562. On the multiplexer 562, reflected energy pulses 564 are fed to the receiver with delays 566. From the receiver with delays 566 reflected/delayed energy pulses 568 are received and summed inside of summer 570 which gives a reflected sum 572. The reflected sum 572 feeds into the phased array acquisition control 540. The same phased array acquisition control 540 can be used for generating the phased array acquisition control signal or receiving the reflected sum 572, or there can be a separate phased array acquisition control for generating versus receiving the phased array.
In a typical globe valve that is operating properly, time will be plotted versus the reflected sum 572. If the wave front 556 is started at time “0”, the reflection off of the end of the valve stem 518 is clearly visible as shown in FIG. 25. There is a very distinguishable “end of stem” signal. As time continues to pass, the reflected sum 572 will also indicate an end of gap signal when the reflected wave front 560 reflects off of the bottom 532 of a globe 510. By measuring the time delay between the wave front 556 and the reflected wave front 560, the distance between the stem probe 554 and either the end 530 of the valve stem 518 or the bottom 532 of the globe 510 can be easily determined. As the distance between the “end of stem” and “end of gap” moves further apart, this indicates the valve stem 518 is beginning to separate from the globe 510. By comparing against a known standard signal, proper operation of the globe valve 500 is determined.
Assuming that switch 550 changes position so that the phased pulse signals 548 from the pulser with delays 546 now are received by body probe 552, the body probe 552 will send a body probe wave front 574 that will strike the bottom of the globe 510 and generate a reflected body probe wave front 576 that will be received by the body probe 552. By measuring the time it takes the body probe wave front 574 to reflect off of the bottom 578 of the globe 510, a determination can be made as to whether the globe valve 500 is open, closed or partially open. If PASS visualization software 580 is used, an operator can visualize the exact position of the globe 510 inside of the globe valve 500.
Referring to FIG. 26, a typical signal from the summer 570 as reflected sum 572, as would be received from the body probe 552 is shown. The bottom of the globe signal is clearly indicated in the reflected sum 572 as plotted in FIG. 6. By measuring the length of time needed to receive the reflected sum 572, the distance the globe 510 has moved can be determined.
In another line chart shown in FIG. 27, the reflected sum 572 again indicates the bottom of the globe. However, the top line chart in FIG. 27 gives an illustration of globe movement when plotted against time.
Referring to FIG. 24, a pictorial view of the stem probe 554 is shown. The arc 582 of the stem probe 554 ensures that the stem probe 554 will match the outer arc of the valve stem 518.
By use of phased array sequence scanning, proper operation of globe valve can be determined as explained in conjunction with FIGS. 23A through 29B. If the valve stem 518 begins to separate from the globe 510, or even about to separate, that can be determined. The amount the globe valve 500 is open or can also be determined using phased array sequence scanning.

What I claim is:
 
1. A method of testing a globe valve having a body, valve stem, globe, bonnet, cap and flow passage in the body, turning of said valve stem by rotary motion moves said globe up or down, in or out of contact with a valve seat in said flow passage, the improvement comprising the following steps:
(a) first attaching stem probe to said valve stem above said bonnet and cap;
(b) sending a first signal from a phase array acquisition control to a first multiplexer to generate first parallel signals;
(c) feeding said first parallel signals to a first pulser with delays to generate first phased pulse signals;
(d) first connecting said first phase pulse signals to said stem probe to generate a first wave front in said valve stem;
(e) first receiving a first reflected wave front in said valve stem by said stem probe;
(f) converting said first reflected wave front in a second multiplexer to first reflected energy pulses;
(g) changing said first reflected energy pulses into first delayed energy pulses in a first receiver with delays;
(h) suming said first delayed energy pulses in a first summer to get a first reflected sum;
(i) measuring said first reflected sum to determine first time between end of valve stem and end of gap within said globe signals in said first reflected sum;
(j) multiplying said first time by speed of travel to determine first distance between (1) said end of valve stem and (2) said end of gap within said globe; and
(k) comparing said first distance with standard signals to determine if said globe valve is in danger of failing.


  
2. The method of testing a globe valve as recited in claim 1 wherein said globe has some lateral movement with support to said valve as said globe valve is closed.

  
3. The method of testing a globe valve as recited in claim 2 wherein said valve stem is connected to said globe by a threaded nut screwing into said globe and pressing against an end flange of said valve stem.

  
4. The method of testing a globe valve as recited in claim 3 wherein said valve stem has seals therearound to prevent leakage.

  
5. The method of testing a globe valve as recited in claim 1 including the further step of:
(l) attaching a body probe to said body;
(m) switching from said stem probe to said body probe;
(n) repeating steps (b) and (c)
(o) second connecting said first phase pulse signals to said body probe to generate said first wave front in said body;
(p) second receiving of said first reflected wave front in said body probe;
(q) repeating steps (f) through (h)
(r) determine second time between said first phased pulse signals and said first reflected wave front; and
(a) second multiplying said second time by speed of travel to give position of said globe.


  
6. The method of testing a globe valve recited in claim 5 including the further step of visually indicating said position of said probe with visualization software.

  
7. A method of determining position of a globe in a globe valve having a body, valve stem, bonnet, cap and flow passage in the body, turning of said valve stem by rotary motion moves said globe up and down above a valve seat in said flow passage, the improvement comprising the following steps:
(a) first attaching a body probe to said valve body generally below said globe;
(b) sending a signal from a phased array acquisition control to a multiplexer to generate parallel signals;
(c) feeding said parallel signals to a pulser with delays to generate first phased pulse signals;
(d) connecting said phased pulse signals to said body probe to generate a wave front directly toward said globe;
(d) Receiving by said body probe a reflected wave front off said probe;
(e) converting said reflective wave front in said multiplexer to reflected energy pulses;
(f) changing said reflected energy pulses into delayed energy pulses in a receiver with delays;
(g) summing said delayed energy pulses in a summer to give a reflective sum;
(h) measuring said reflective sum to determine time between said pulse signals and said reflective wave front;
(i) multiplying said time by speed of travel to give position of said globe.


  
8. A method of determining position of a globe in a globe valve as recited in claim 7 includes a further step of preparing said reflected wave front with standard signals for said globe valve to determine proper operation of said globe valve.