Source: [US20060107612A1](https://patents.google.com/patent/US20060107612A1)

# [US20060107612A1](US20060107612A1.md) - Anchoring device

## Details

* Date: 2004-10-01
* Inventor: 
* Beneficiary: Robert Pelc

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * US695722A
 * US1714738A
 * US1809393A
 * US2362252A
 * US2959294A
 * US2993950A
 * US3671371A
 * US3810338A
 * US4003175A
 * US4125410A
 * [US4149419A](US4149419A.md)
 * US4272952A
 * US4900208A
 * US4987714A
 * US5054983A
 * US5361768A
 * US5378102A
 * [US5383460A](US5383460A.md)
 * US5441288A
 * US5524410A
 * USD371502S
 * [US5715825A](US5715825A.md)
 * US5750001A
 * US5827032A
 * US5907938A
 * US6017019A
 * US6314699B1
 * US6319227B1
 * US6360500B1
 * US6363680B1
 * US6402415B1
 * USD470039S1
 * US20030154662A1
 * USD485160S1
 * US20040170489A1
 * US20040212165A1
 * US6810633B2
 * US6851884B2
 * US6871467B2
 * US6922969B1
 * US7052200B2
 * US7080486B2
 * US7108101B1
 * USD547169S1
 * US7533500B2
 * US7578105B2
### Forward
 * US20080279654A1
 * US20110123290A1
 * US20110192112A1
 * US20130247504A1
 * US20140174025A1
 * EP2750998A2
 * US9700931B2
 * USD792757S1
 * USD795049S1
 * USD796305S1
 * USD796306S1
 * WO2018087506A1
 * US10113306B2
## Abstract

Abstract

An anchoring device is disclosed comprising a generally horizontal top element having an elongate, generally vertical, collapsible element extending downwardly from the underside thereof, the horizontal top element comprises a metallic plate reinforced plastic.



An anchoring device is disclosed comprising a generally horizontal top element having an elongate, generally vertical, collapsible element extending downwardly from the underside thereof, the horizontal top element comprises a metallic plate reinforced plastic.

This invention relates to an anchoring device for retaining adjacent boards in precision spaced alignment, being particularly suitable for use with outdoor platform deck construction. 
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
    Outdoor spaced board platforms, generally referred to as decks, have become popular additions to homes, offices, restaurants and the like. They generally comprise a plurality of elongate, flat laid, closely spaced boards, connected to and supported on their bottom surface by framing with spaced joists, stringers, beams and the like forming a secure floor. Though the boards are generally cut from natural wood, they have been increasing manufactured from various compositions of wood and/or other cellulosic materials with various resins, and even plastics and various metals. The top surface of the boards is generally referred to as the face side of a board and the facing elongate sides of adjacent flat laid boards is generally referred to as the edges of a board. 
     It is generally a desirable ornamental design to maintain the spacing of the edges of the flat laid floor boards at a consistent distance, and such distance between adjacent floor boards is generally minimized for safe walking and standing. A particularly desirable distance between boards is one which is small enough to allow safe barefoot or high healed walking and the like, yet large enough to allow expansion, contraction, swelling or the like of the boards without engagement of adjacent boards. 
     It is also generally a desirable ornamental design to connect the flat laid floor boards to framing and/or stringers unobtrusively, without visible nail or screw heads showing on the face surface of the boards, and to provide an anchoring means which resists the warping of adjacent boards, particularly warping which is a continuous problem between connection points to joists, stringers and the like. 
     Various fastening devices have been proposed in an attempt to provide desirable ornamental design characteristics to flat laid boards yet each have shortcomings which mitigate against their use. 
     U.S. Pat. No. 6,402,415 B1 by Eberle III, discloses a rigid plastic anchoring biscuit device having an elongate horizontal biscuit shaped top element and two substantially vertical support members extending downwardly from centerline of the underside thereof, for joining adjacent boards. The top element is arranged to provide a supporting bridge between adjacent boards by inserting into mating joining slots formed in facing edges of adjacent boards, and the vertical support members are generally dimensioned to provide a fixed ornamental construction distance between adjacent boards by functioning as a dimensionally fixed spacer engaging the opposing surface of edges of adjacent flat laid boards. 
     The top element provided in Eberle is shown as having a central hole therethrough which enables the user to vertically screw or nail the anchoring biscuit to a supporting joist; angularly screw or nail the anchoring biscuit to a flat laid floor board; or, simultaneously angularly screw or nail the anchor through a flat laid floor board to a joist. 
     In a typical installation of the Eberle anchor, a first elongate flat laid floor board, having a plurality of spaced biscuit joiner cut slots in the longitudinal edge of the board, is connected in a fixed starting position spanning a plurality of joists with face side up. The thickness of the horizontal top element of the anchor is sized to insert into a joiner cut slot and a first portion of the horizontal top element of the anchor biscuit is mounted to a board by inserting it into a slot with a side of the vertical element engaging the edge of the laid board. The anchor is fastened in place by screw or nail through its fastening opening into a joist, a floor board or both. When an anchor is mounted at a joist position, the screws or nails may be fastened directly into the joist or fastened angularly through the flat laid board into the joist. When the device is arranged displaced from a joist or the like, the screw or nail is generally fastened angularly into the board only. 
     A second flat laid floor board with face side up, its opposing edge comprising a plurality of spaced biscuit joiner slots in mating alignment with the previously first flat laid floor board, is then placed into position adjacent the first floor board and forced into place so that an opposite portion of the horizontal element of the installed anchoring biscuit inserts into a mating joiner slot of the second laid board. Adjacent boards butting against opposite faces of a vertical element of an anchoring biscuit generally define the spacing between the boards. Anchoring biscuits are mounted to spaced biscuit joiner slots in the opposite side of the second floor board for engaging a third laid board and the process is continued through completion of the platform deck. 
     Though such anchoring devices are an effective means for convenient precision spacing and attachment of the floor boards to joists and/or each other during initial construction, they are subject to weather related failure and the visibility of the heads of fastening screws and/or nails between the boards is generally found ornamentally undesirable. 
     Commercially available anchoring biscuits of the aforesaid type are manufactured from rigid molded plastics, which under the stress of flexion and compression due to deck use and changing weather conditions the top biscuit element is known to crack or break thus losing its ability to anchor and/or prevent warping of the boards. Though vertical members conveniently provide precision spacing between boards during initial construction, the swelling of laid boards during wet weather conditions tends to tightly compress the vertical members and though they may not break or crumble, their resistance to same can exacerbate warping of the boards. To solve such problems further spacing means are generally used during construction to assure a greater spacing than that defined by the vertical members. 
     The location of a center hole for affixing a screw or nail leaves an exposed, usually stainless steel nail or screw head, which many consider an undesirable ornamental blemish to the deck. Further, though nail and screw fastening means are desirable for securely fastening the anchors, plastic anchors generally have little tolerance for over-tightening and fastening has to be skillfully handled to avoid driving the screw or nail head though the plastic top element leaving a loosely fastened and/or failed anchor. 
     An object of the present invention is to provide an anchoring device having greater resistance to top element breakage. 
     A further object is to provide an anchoring device having a disposable spacing means. 
     These and other objects of the invention will become apparent in the following recitation of the invention. 
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
    The present invention is an improved anchoring device for joining adjacent flat laid boards, comprising a generally horizontal metal reinforced plastic top element, having a generally vertical guide element extending downwardly from the underside thereof. The top element has a fastening opening therein which passes through the metal reinforcing and is arranged to accept a screw or nail means for fastening the anchoring device to a joist or adjacent flat laid board. 
     The top element of the anchor is in the form of a generally flat plate of measured thickness generally corresponding to about the width of a joining slot in the edge of a flat laid board in which it is to be inserted. By metal reinforced is meant the top element comprises an integral metal plate which is at least partially surrounded by plastic. The thickness of the metal plate and the fastener opening therethrough are sized to have greater resistance to the passage of the head of a screw or nail fastening means therethrough than the plastic comprising the top element. 
     In one preferred embodiment the top side and underside of the horizontal element are substantially flat with a centrally arranged vertical element(s) extending generally perpendicularly downwardly from its underside. In another embodiment the top surface of the top element has a generally flat peripheral area with a central area sloping downwardly toward a central opening. In still another embodiment the top element comprises one or more ridges along its top and/or underside. In a still further embodiment, the top side of the top element comprises an upwardly extending shoulder arranged to extend over the fastening opening and conceal the opening from direct overhead view. The side of the shoulder comprises an opening sized and aligned to enable passage of a screw or nail through the opening of the horizontal element for attaching the device to a joist or flat laid board. The shoulder may be dimensioned to any suitable width, but it's generally desirable to be of the same or less width than the width of the vertical element. In an embodiment wherein the shoulder width is the same as the width of the vertical element, it is generally desirable that the shoulder comprise a hollow and that the walls of the hollow are dimensioned in thickness to be collapsible. 
     When viewed from a top plan view, the horizontal top element can be generally circular, oblong, elliptical, polygonal or the like, and can be of any convenient thickness. Generally it is preferred that the metal plate sandwiched therein be of similar shape. Thus in preferred embodiments a generally circular horizontal element preferably comprises a generally circular metallic plate, a generally oblong element comprises a generally oblong plate and a polygonal element a generally a polygonal plate. 
     Generally it is preferred the plastic fully surround the metal plate, i.e. that the metal plate be surrounded by plastic on its top, bottom and peripheral edge, but such is not required. In one embodiment the metal plate rests in a conforming seat of plastic around its peripheral edge and bottom surface. In another, only a portion of the top surface of the metal plate is covered. 
     The plastic comprising the top element can be rigid plastic but flexible plastic is generally preferred. By flexible is meant that the plastic cannot easily be broken by normal swelling and flexing of the deck boards. Even when the plastic is rigid, though flexing and/or swelling of adjacent boards may crack or even crumble the plastic, the metal reinforcing can retain functional anchoring stability. When the plastic is flexible, there is more resistance to cracking, breaking or crumbling caused by flexing and/or swelling and the rigidity of the anchor is maintained by the metal plate. 
     The elongate vertical element is formed in continuum with plastic comprising the horizontal top element and functions as an attachment guide for assuring the top element is fixed at about a right angle to the edge of the flat laid board it is fastened to, while its depth provides a measured distance between the edges of adjoining boards for consistent ornamental design. 
     In one embodiment the vertical element is a collapsible element comprising a hollow and the walls forming the hollow of the vertical element are sized in thickness and strength to collapse and/or break upon excessive compression of the element through swelling of adjacent flat laid boards. In such embodiment wherein the plastic is flexible, the vertical element collapses. In such embodiment wherein the plastic is rigid the vertical element is formed thin walled to enable it to break under the force of swelling adjacent boards. In other embodiments, used particularly with rigid plastics, the end of a generally hollow vertical element at the underside of the top element is dimensioned thinner to shear under a measured force. 
     In a preferred embodiment, the hollow of the vertical collapsible element has an opening at its end distal from the horizontal element. In a further preferred embodiment, the end of the vertical collapsible element, nearest the horizontal top element, further comprises one or more outlet openings along one or more of its engaging surfaces in alignment with the fastening opening of the top element, so that a fastening screw or nail means can be angularly directed through the fastening opening of the top element through a side of the collapsible element. 
     One or more generally vertical elements of any suitable curved or polygonal shape extends downwardly from the underside of generally horizontal top element. In one embodiment, the vertical collapsible element is a hollow polygonal box comprising an opening at its distal end. In a further embodiment, the vertical collapsible element comprises adjacent hollow rectilinear boxes arranged on opposite sides of a central opening along a common centerline with an opening at their distal ends. Curved vertical collapsible element(s) are generally of cylindrical, elliptical, oblong or the like cross-section, with an open distal end. 
     In a still further embodiment of the invention, the vertical element comprises a tab arrangement which is displaced when subjected to force occasioned by swelling and the like of adjacent flat laid boards. An assembly tab(s), connected to the underside of the top element and/or to the vertical element, is spaced from the vertical element, and has an installation surface facing opposite from an edge mounting surface of the vertical element. The assembly tab(s) is arranged to displace from position when subjected to the excessive pressure of swelling, but to resist displacement during deck assembly. In a preferred embodiment, the vertical element is arranged offset from a centerline of the generally horizontal member and is dimensioned to a thickness less than the desired assembly distance between laid boards. The surface of the vertical element which is the most offset from the centerline of the horizontal element, comprises the edge mounting surface of the vertical element, and is arranged so that the distance from the edge mounting surface of the vertical element and the installation surface of one or more tabs comprises the desired ornamental assembly distance between laid boards. Thus, during installation the anchors are screw or nail fastened with the mounting surface of the vertical members engaging the first laid board and the second laid board is inserted into position with its adjacent edge engaging the installation surface of the tabs. Upon swelling of the boards, the assembly tabs are displaced by breaking off or bending in response to the decreasing distance between flat laid boards. 
     The opening in the horizontal top element is provided to enable screwing, nailing or the like the anchor device to a joist or an adjacent flat laid floor board. An opening can be of any suitable shape. In one embodiment the opening is generally circular. In a further embodiment the opening is oblong. In a still further embodiment the opening is polygonal. In one embodiment the opening is generally central to the top element. In a further embodiment the opening is generally offset from the center of the top element. 
     For a fuller understanding of the device of the present invention, reference should be made to the following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
    FIG. 1 is a top plan view of an anchoring device of the invention showing the geometric shape of the sandwiched metallic plate in dotted line. 
     FIG. 2 is a top plan view of another anchoring device of the invention showing the geometric shape of the sandwiched metallic plate in dotted line. 
     FIG. 3 is a top plan view of another anchoring device of the invention showing the geometric shape of the sandwiched metallic plate in dotted line. 
     FIG. 4 is a perspective view of the anchoring device of FIG. 3. 
     FIG. 5 is a top plan view of another anchoring device of the invention showing the geometric shape of the sandwiched metallic plate in dotted line. 
     FIG. 6 is a perspective view of the anchoring device of FIG. 5 shown with attachment screw. 
     FIG. 7 is a top plan view of another anchoring device of the invention showing the geometric shape of the sandwiched metallic plate in dotted line. 
     FIG. 8 is a top plan view of another anchoring device of the invention showing the geometric shape of the sandwiched metallic plate in dotted line. 
     FIG. 9 is a perspective view of the anchoring device of FIG. 8. 
     FIG. 10 is a perspective view of a further anchoring device of the invention.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 
    Referring now to FIG. 1 wherein is illustrated a top plan view of an embodiment of the anchoring device of the invention having a generally square top element 10, with the metallic element 11 being outlined in dotted line, and also being generally square, having an oblong fastening opening 12 therethrough. This arrangement of the invention shows plastic surrounding the sides and exterior peripheral edge of metallic element, with the peripheral edge of the metallic element at a generally central opening not being covered by plastic. This embodiment is generally desirable for use with flat laid boards collapsible hollow rectilinear shoulder 33 extending upwardly from the top side of the top element and collapsible hollow rectilinear vertical element 34 extending downwardly from the underside thereof. This embodiment is particularly preferred for use with flat laid boards which undergo significant climatical dimensional changes. The offset placement of the fastening opening allows fastening to an adjacent flat laid board and when the second board is pushed into position the screw head is covered by being within the slot thereof. 
     FIGS. 5 and 6 illustrate top plan and bottom side perspective view of an embodiment of the anchoring device of the invention having a generally circular top element 40, with metallic element 41 being outlined in dotted line. Fastening opening 42 is arranged about center of the top element and collapsible hollow cylindrical vertical element 44 is illustrated as a cylindrical member extending downwardly from the underside thereof, with fastening screw 45 shown extending generally vertically therethrough for direct attachment to a joist or the like. Alternate fastening opening outlet 43 is illustrated as extending through the side of vertical element 44 for fastening to an adjoining flat laid board. 
     FIG. 7 illustrates a top plan view of an embodiment of the anchoring device of the invention having a generally oval top element 50, with metallic element 51 being outlined in dotted line, and having a generally circular fastening opening 52 therethrough. This embodiment is particularly preferred for use with flat laid boards in which spaced mating biscuit joiner slots are cut for mating slotted flat laid boards. 
     FIGS. 8 and 9 illustrate top plan and bottom side perspective views of an embodiment of the anchoring device of the invention having a generally circular top element 60, with metallic element 61 being outlined in dotted line. Fastening opening 62 is arranged about center of the top element and the top element comprises shoulder 63 extending upwardly from the top side of the top element and collapsible hollow rectilinear vertical elements 64 and 65 extend downwardly from the underside thereof. In this embodiment of the invention, shoulder 63 comprises an opening (not shown) along its side at about its confluence with top element providing entrance to fastening opening 62. This side entrance to the attachment opening hides a screw or nail head from direct top view and is a preferred embodiment for deck construction where visible screw heads are discouraged. 
     FIG. 10 illustrates a bottom side perspective view of an embodiment of the anchoring device of the invention having a generally oblong top element 70, with metallic element 71 being outlined in dotted line. Fastening opening 72 is arranged about center of the top element and solid rectilinear vertical elements 74 and 75 extend downwardly from the underside thereof, offset from about the centerline of top element 70. In this embodiment of the invention, assembly tabs 76 and 77 extend from the underside 70 a of top element 70 and comprise reduced dimensioning shear lines 76 a and 77 a at their boundary with top element 70, enabled to break when subjected to a defined generally perpendicular force. Dimension d1 is sized to the desired ornamental assembly dimension between boards. It should be understood that though assembly tabs in this embodiment are illustrated as solid tabs breaking away under stress, they may be hollow tabs and the like and may be rigidly or flexibly connected to the vertical element so as to be displaced by breaking away or bending to a different position under the force of swelling and the like generally horizontal stress.

1. An anchoring device comprising a generally horizontal top element having an elongate, generally vertical element extending downwardly from the underside thereof, said horizontal top element comprising a metal plate reinforced plastic. 

  
 2. An anchoring device of claim 1 wherein said horizontal top element comprises a fastening opening therethrough. 

  
 3. An anchoring device of claim 2 wherein said fastening opening of said top element comprises an outlet through said generally vertical element. 

  
 4. An anchoring device of claim 1 wherein said generally vertical element is collapsible. 

  
 5. An anchoring device of claim 4 wherein said vertical collapsible element is formed from plastic continuum with plastic comprising the underside of the horizontal top element. 

  
 6. An anchoring device of claim 5 wherein said vertical collapsible element comprises a hollow. 

  
 7. An anchoring device of claim 6 wherein walls defining said hollow of said vertical collapsible element are sized in thickness and strength to collapse with compression of said vertical element. 

  
 8. An anchoring device of claim 7 wherein said hollow of said vertical collapsible element has an opening at an end thereof distal from the horizontal top element. 

  
 9. An anchoring device of claim 7 wherein the end of said vertical collapsible element, nearest the horizontal top element, comprises an outlet from said fastening opening of said top element. 

  
 10. An anchoring device of claim 1 wherein said vertical element is aligned along about a centerline of the top element. 

  
 11. An anchoring device of claim 1 wherein the top surface of said top element slopes downwardly toward a central fastening opening. 

  
 12. An anchoring device of claim 1 wherein said top element is generally flat and comprises one or more ridges along its top side. 

  
 13. An anchoring device of claim 1 wherein said top element is generally flat and comprises one or more ridges along its underside. 

  
 14. An anchoring device of claim 1 wherein the top surface of said top element comprises an upwardly extending shoulder generally aligned along about a centerline of said top element, a side of the shoulder comprising an opening generally aligned with said fastening opening. 

  
 15. An anchoring device of claim 14 wherein said shoulder comprises a hollow, with walls defining said hollow of said shoulder being sized in thickness and strength to collapse under force. 

  
 16. An anchoring device of claim 1 wherein said plastic is a flexible plastic. 

  
 17. An anchoring device of claim 1 wherein said generally vertical element comprises a shear line for shearing the vertical element under a measured force. 

  
 18. An anchoring device of claim 1 further comprising an assembly tab arranged to displace from position when subjected to a generally horizontal force. 

  
 19. An anchoring device comprising a generally horizontal top element having an elongate, generally vertical element extending downwardly from the underside thereof, said horizontal top element comprising a flexible plastic reinforced with a metallic plate having a fastening opening therethrough. 

  
 20. An anchoring device of claim 19 wherein said vertical element is aligned along about a centerline of the top element. 

  
 21. An anchoring device of claim 19 wherein the top surface of said top element slopes downwardly toward a central fastening opening. 

  
 22. An anchoring device of claim 19 wherein said top element is generally flat and comprises one or more ridges along its top side. 

  
 23. An anchoring device of claim 19 wherein the top surface of said top element comprises an upwardly extending shoulder generally aligned along about a centerline of the top element, a side of the shoulder comprising an opening generally aligned with said fastening opening. 

  
 24. An anchoring device of claim 19 wherein the shape of the horizontal top element is selected from generally circular, oblong, elliptical and polygonal. 

  
 25. An anchoring device of claim 19 wherein the cross sectional shape of the vertical collapsible element is selected from generally cylindrical, elliptical, oblong and polygonal. 

  
 26. An anchoring device of claim 19 further comprising an assembly tab arranged to displace from position when subjected to a generally horizontal force. 

  
 27. An anchoring device comprising a generally horizontal top element having an elongate, generally vertical element extending downwardly from the underside thereof, said device further comprising an assembly tab arranged to displace from position when subjected to a generally horizontal force. 

  
 28. An anchoring device of claim 27 wherein said vertical element is offset from a centerline of said top element.