Source: [US20080294073A1](https://patents.google.com/patent/US20080294073A1)

# [US20080294073A1](US20080294073A1.md) - Method and sysem for non-ablative acne treatment and prevention

## Details

* Date: 2006-09-18
* Inventor: Guided Therapy Systems LLC
  , 
    Guided Therapy Systems Inc
* Beneficiary: Peter G. Barthe, Michael H. Slayton, Inder Raj S. Makin

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * US2427348A
 * US3913386A
 * US3965455A
 * US3992925A
 * US4039312A
 * [US4059098A](US4059098A.md)
 * [US4101795A](US4101795A.md)
 * US4166967A
 * [US4211949A](US4211949A.md)
 * [US4211948A](US4211948A.md)
 * US4213344A
 * [US4276491A](US4276491A.md)
 * [US4315514A](US4315514A.md)
 * [US4325381A](US4325381A.md)
 * US4372296A
 * US4379145A
 * [US4381787A](US4381787A.md)
 * US4397314A
 * [US4409839A](US4409839A.md)
 * US4431008A
 * [US4441486A](US4441486A.md)
 * US4452084A
 * [US4484569A](US4484569A.md)
 * [US4507582A](US4507582A.md)
 * US4513750A
 * US4513749A
 * US4527550A
 * US4528979A
 * [US4534221A](US4534221A.md)
 * US4566459A
 * [US4567895A](US4567895A.md)
 * [US4586512A](US4586512A.md)
 * [US4601296A](US4601296A.md)
 * [US4620546A](US4620546A.md)
 * [US4637256A](US4637256A.md)
 * [US4646756A](US4646756A.md)
 * US4663358A
 * US4668516A
 * US4672591A
 * US4680499A
 * US4697588A
 * US4754760A
 * [US4757820A](US4757820A.md)
 * US4771205A
 * US4801459A
 * US4803625A
 * [US4807633A](US4807633A.md)
 * US4817615A
 * [US4858613A](US4858613A.md)
 * US4860732A
 * US4865041A
 * [US4865042A](US4865042A.md)
 * [US4867169A](US4867169A.md)
 * US4874562A
 * US4875487A
 * US4891043A
 * US4893624A
 * US4900540A
 * US4901729A
 * [US4917096A](US4917096A.md)
 * [US4932414A](US4932414A.md)
 * [US4938216A](US4938216A.md)
 * [US4938217A](US4938217A.md)
 * US4947046A
 * [US4951653A](US4951653A.md)
 * [US4955365A](US4955365A.md)
 * US4958626A
 * US4973096A
 * US4979501A
 * US4992989A
 * US5012797A
 * US5018508A
 * US5030874A
 * [US5036855A](US5036855A.md)
 * US5040537A
 * US5054310A
 * [US5391140A](US5391140A.md)
 * US6106469A
 * US20010014819A1
 * US20010041886A1
 * US6413216B1
 * US20020099094A1
 * US20020156400A1
 * US20020169442A1
 * US6540685B1
 * US6569099B1
 * US20030171701A1
 * US6669638B1
 * US20040010222A1
 * US20040077977A1
 * US20040082859A1
 * US20040122493A1
 * US20050143677A1
 * US20050191252A1
 * US20050288748A1
 * US20060025756A1
 * US20060100550A1
 * US20060116671A1
 * US7074218B2
 * US20060184071A1
 * US20080200813A1
 * US7601120B2
### Forward
 * US20060089632A1
 * US20090118684A1
 * US20100022919A1
 * US7758524B2
 * US7824348B2
 * US8133180B2
 * US8166332B2
 * US8235909B2
 * US8282554B2
 * US20130012842A1
 * WO2013012641A1
 * US8409097B2
 * [US8444562B2](US8444562B2.md)
 * US8480585B2
 * US8491521B2
 * US8535228B2
 * US8663112B2
 * US8690778B2
 * US8715186B2
 * US8764687B2
 * US8852103B2
 * [US8857438B2](US8857438B2.md)
 * [US8915870B2](US8915870B2.md)
 * US9005144B2
 * [US9011336B2](US9011336B2.md)
 * US20150164734A1
 * [US9114247B2](US9114247B2.md)
 * US9132287B2
 * [US9149658B2](US9149658B2.md)
 * [US9216276B2](US9216276B2.md)
 * US9241683B2
 * [US9263663B2](US9263663B2.md)
 * US9261596B2
 * [US9504446B2](US9504446B2.md)
 * [US9510802B2](US9510802B2.md)
 * [US9566454B2](US9566454B2.md)
 * [US9667889B2](US9667889B2.md)
 * [US9694212B2](US9694212B2.md)
 * US9827449B2
 * US10232161B2
 * [US10420960B2](US10420960B2.md)
 * [US10537304B2](US10537304B2.md)
 * [US10561862B2](US10561862B2.md)
 * [US10603521B2](US10603521B2.md)
## Abstract

Abstract

A method and system for non-ablative acne treatment and prevention is disclosed. The method utilizes ultrasound energy which is targeted at a region of interest to treat existing acne and prevent future acne from forming. The application of ultrasound energy causes numerous physiological effects that treat acne. Some of these physiological effects comprise reducing sebum, increasing perfusion at the region of interest, denaturing proteins at the region of interest, creating an uninhabitable environment at the region of interest, initiating programmed cell death at the region of interest and the initiation of mechanical effects at the region of interest.



A method and system for non-ablative acne treatment and prevention is disclosed. The method utilizes ultrasound energy which is targeted at a region of interest to treat existing acne and prevent future acne from forming. The application of ultrasound energy causes numerous physiological effects that treat acne. Some of these physiological effects comprise reducing sebum, increasing perfusion at the region of interest, denaturing proteins at the region of interest, creating an uninhabitable environment at the region of interest, initiating programmed cell death at the region of interest and the initiation of mechanical effects at the region of interest.

CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
   This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60/826,039 filed Sep. 18, 2006 entitled “Method and System for Non-Ablative Acne Treatment,” wherein such provisional application is hereby incorporated in its entirety, by reference.
 FIELD OF INVENTION
   The present invention relates to treatment systems, and in particular to an ultrasound system for non-ablative treatment of acne.
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Acne vulgaris is the most common skin disease, causing temporary and permanent disfigurement. Acne typically appears on the face, back and/or chest at the onset of adrenarchy, i.e. when sex hormone activity increases in both boys and girls near puberty. Women often experience cycle-dependent acne. Acne is a disease of the sebaceous glands. Sebaceous glands are glands within the skin connected to a hair-containing canal called a follicle. The combination of the follicle and sebaceous gland is sometimes referred to as a “pilosebaceous unit.” In healthy skin, the sebaceous glands produce sebum which flows out of the skin through the follicle. In diseased skin, the follicle becomes plugged with dead skin cells.
    Sebum, an oily product of the sebaceous gland and cellular debris build up in the plug. Inflammation and often rupture of the hair follicles ensues, leading to gross inflammation, pus (a “whitehead”), pain, bleeding, and/or eventual scarring. If the acne lesion consists of an accumulated unruptured plug within a hair follicle, a “blackhead” forms. If the follicle ruptures superficially, a small pustule forms that often heals after a few weeks without scarring. If the follicle ruptures within the mid or deep dermis, a painful cystic abscess forms. Cystic acne usually heals with permanent and disfiguring scars.
    The exact pathophysiology of acne is complex; however, several basic elements are necessary to produce an acne lesion, and acne therapies are based on attacking one or more of these basic elements. First, an active sebaceous gland is necessary. Sebaceous gland activity is driven by androgen and other sex steroid hormones. Second, a plug must form in the outflow tract of the follicle, called the infundibulum.
    Bacteria, particularly Proprionobacteria acnes (P acnes) that digest sebum and follicular debris, contribute to plugging. Besides P acnes, numerous other strains of bacteria and other microorganisms reside within a patient's skin and contribute to the plugging. Further, tiny microorganisms besides bacteria also are typically found to reside in a patient's skin and can exacerbate acne.
    The most potent treatments for acne are oral retinoids such as retinoic acid (Accutane®), which inhibit sebaceous gland function. While effective, oral retinoids such as the Accutane® drug have serious side-effects that prevent certain patients from using them. Most notably, these drugs can cause serious birth defects which prevents women of child-bearing years from using these treatments.
    Many topical treatments including creams, gels, and various cleansing pads have been used to treat acne. These treatments include both over-the-counter treatments and those available only by prescription such as the Retin A® drug that is applied as a cream to the patient's body. The major drawback of topical treatments is that the creams or other substances are used up and must be constantly replaced.
    Other methods and systems use various devices to treat acne which eliminates the problems of topical treatments in that devices are not used up and do not need constant replacement. Some devices pass heat through acne diseased skin or heat the surface of the skin. One such device is the Zeno™ device produced by Tyrell, Inc. of Houston, Tex. Unfortunately, these devices are not very effective, are not comfortable to use, and they cannot treat severe acne. One reason that these devices are not very effective is that they apply heat to the surface of the skin only, requiring the heat to travel down to the sebaceous gland to have any effect. It would be desirable to provide a method and system for heating the sebaceous gland directly and the area surrounding the sebaceous gland without applying unneeded heat to the patient's skin away from the sebaceous gland.
    Yet other methods and systems treat acne by delivering energy to the acne diseased skin at levels that are strong enough to damage or destroy the tissue. Other techniques affect tissue by causing coagulation of the tissue, which is also effective.
    Unfortunately, ablative and coagulative acne treatment methods have their drawbacks. Specifically, because they utilize enough energy to destroy or coagulate tissue, ablation and coagulation devices and techniques are generally not available over the counter for the general public's use. Therefore, it would be advantageous to provide a treatment system that is suitable for home use that can effectively treat all forms of acne, including severe acne.
    It would also be advantageous to have a system and method whose use can prevent acne and/or reduce the amount of sebum production before acne flares up, or to simply to reduce skin oiliness.
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   A method and system for non-ablative treatment and prevention of acne are provided. In an exemplary embodiment, focused, unfocused or defocused ultrasound energy is applied to a region of interest to treat acne. An exemplary method and system are configured for targeted treatment of a pilosebaceous unit, particularly the sebaceous glands and their contents, in various manners, such as through use of therapy only, therapy and monitoring, imaging and therapy, or therapy, imaging, and monitoring. Targeted therapy of sebaceous glands can be provided through use of unfocused, focused, or defocused ultrasound energy at various spatial and temporal energy settings.
    An exemplary method and system are configured to heat a region of interest approximately 1-10 millimeters below the surface of the patient's skin by applying unfocused or defocused ultrasound energy to the region of interest. In one exemplary embodiment ultrasound energy is applied at known depths over an extended area without initial or ongoing imaging.
    In an exemplary embodiment, the heating occurs approximately 1-5 millimeters below the surface of the patient's skin and raises the temperature at this depth in a range of approximately 1°-25° C. higher than the patient's normal body temperature and causes certain mechanical effects at the region of interest to treat acne. In an exemplary embodiment, the temperature increase is between 1°-15° C. higher than the patient's normal body temperature. Therefore, the heating occurs at the depth of the sebaceous glands and not at the surface of the skin away from the sebaceous glands. Therefore, the temperature at the specific depths in the region of interest is raised between approximately 35°-49° C. In an alternative exemplary embodiment, the temperature within the region of interest can be raised between the range of approximately 35°-60° C. Other temperature ranges can be used though and fall within the scope of the invention.
    In an exemplary embodiment, enough energy is emitted from the ultrasound system to stay below the thermal capacity of the tissue. Therefore, no ablation or coagulation of the tissue occurs. In certain exemplary embodiments, the temperature increase may be dramatic, but if it is only applied for a short period of time the overall application of energy will be low enough so that no ablation or coagulation of the issue occurs. In other embodiments, the temperature increase may be small but applied over a longer time period to properly affect the sebaceous glands without ablation or coagulation occurring. Essentially, the time averaged power or thermal dose stays below a level where ablation or coagulation occurs.
    Heating the region of interest at these depths causes one or more physiological effects that treat acne. In an exemplary embodiment, the heat causes increased blood perfusion in the region of interest. Additionally, the heat raises the temperature to a level where proteins within the region of interest are denatured.
    Further, heat can initiate programmed cell death or apoptosis of bacteria cells that contribute to acne. Programmed cell death is the natural process where cells produce certain chemicals that lead to the cell's death. Applying heat to an acne infested region of interest can cause bacteria cells (such as P acnes) to produce those chemicals and initiate programmed cell death of bacteria cells which further reduces acne. Finally, the application of energy can decrease sebum production by the application of heat and various mechanical effects at the region of interest.
    In an exemplary embodiment treatment is used to prevent acne from occurring. In an exemplary embodiment treatment is used to suppress the activity of sebaceous glands, thereby reducing the size and number of skin pores, decreasing skin oiliness, and achieving a desirable cosmetic effect.
    In an exemplary embodiment, an exemplary system comprises an ultrasound system that emits ultrasound energy at concentrated levels to the region of interest at specific or targeted depths beneath the patient's skin to heat the region of interest as described above. An exemplary ultrasound system comprises a control system, a probe, and a display or indicator system. The probe can comprise various probe and/or transducer configurations. In an exemplary embodiment, the probe delivers unfocused ultrasound energy to the region of interest without performing an imaging function. In other exemplary embodiments, the probe delivers strongly focused or weakly focused ultrasound energy. In yet other exemplary embodiments, imaging can be completed during treatment. In other exemplary embodiments, the probe can be configured for a combined dual-mode imaging/therapy transducer, coupled or co-housed imaging/therapy transducers, or simply a therapy probe or an imaging probe.
    The control system and display system can also comprise various configurations for controlling probe and system functionality, including for example a microprocessor with software and a plurality of input/output devices, a system for controlling electronic and/or mechanical scanning and/or multiplexing of transducers, a system for power delivery, systems for monitoring, systems for sensing the spatial position of the probe and/or transducers, and systems for handling user input and recording treatment results, among others.
    In an exemplary embodiment, a coupling agent, containing at least one of a gel, cream, liquid, emulsion, medicant or other compound is used to acoustically couple the probe to a patient's body. In an exemplary embodiment, the coupling agent contains medicines and other drugs that are delivered to the patient's body during the emission of energy from the probe. In this exemplary embodiment, the drugs and medicines within the agent are directed at skin treatment and repair for treating diseases such as acne.
 
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The subject matter of the invention is particularly pointed out in the concluding portion of the specification. The invention, however, both as to organization and method of operation, may be best understood by reference to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing figures, in which like parts may be referred to by like numerals.
     FIG. 1 illustrates a block diagram of the method of acne treatment in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention
     FIG. 2 illustrates a block diagram of a treatment system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
     FIG. 3 illustrates a schematic diagram of a treatment system configured to treat a pilosebaceous unit in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
     FIG. 4 illustrates a schematic diagram of an ultrasound treatment system configured to both treat the pilosebaceous unit and be used to assist in drug delivery in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
     FIGS. 5A-5B illustrate schematic diagrams of ultrasound treatment systems configured to treat the sebaceous gland via direct targeting within the treatment layer in accordance with various exemplary embodiments of the present invention;
     FIGS. 6A, 6B, 6C, 6D, and 6E illustrate cross-sectional diagrams of an exemplary transducer in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention; and
     FIGS. 7A, 7B, and 7C illustrate block diagrams of an exemplary control system in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention
 
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   The present invention may be described herein in terms of various functional components and processing steps. It should be appreciated that such components and steps may be realized by any number of hardware components configured to perform the specified functions. For example, the present invention may employ various medical treatment devices, visual imaging and display devices, input terminals and the like, which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more control systems or other control devices. In addition, the present invention may be practiced in any number of medical contexts and that the exemplary embodiments relating to a method and system for treating acne and sebaceous glands and the prevention of acne as described herein are merely indicative of exemplary applications for the invention. For example, the principles, features and methods discussed may be applied to any medical application. Further, various aspects of the present invention may be suitably applied to other applications. Moreover, references to “sebaceous gland” include not just the gland itself, but all the contents within the gland.
    With reference to FIG. 1, the method of treating existing acne and preventing future acne comprises targeting energy to a region of interest that comprises a pilosebaceous unit and its contents. In an exemplary embodiment, the energy is ultrasound energy. In other exemplary embodiments, the energy is microwave energy, radio frequency energy, light energy, or other energy forms.
    This method will be generally referred to as method 10 throughout and produces numerous physiological effects such as increased blood perfusion, the denaturing of proteins, causing various mechanical effects, creating an uninhabitable environment for acne contributing bacteria and organisms, and accelerating the programmed cell death of bacteria and other acne causing organisms. These physiological effects occur at a region of interest 12 (ROI 12). Any of these physiological effects at ROI 12 treat current acne and prevent future acne from occurring at ROI 12.
    ROI 12 can comprise an inner treatment region, a superficial region, a subcutaneous region of interest and/or any other region of interest in between an inner treatment region, a superficial region, and/or a subcutaneous region within a patient. In various exemplary embodiments, ROI 12 comprises at least one pilosebaceous unit 68 and an associated sebaceous gland 70. Throughout this application, reference to a “pilosebaceous unit 68” includes all the contents of the pilosebaceous unit 68 and related sebaceous gland 70.
    Further, while only one ROI 12 is depicted, a plurality of ROI 12 can be treated by system 14 within an exemplary non-ablative acne treatment method. Also, while the present invention is directed at ROI 12 with a pilosebaceous unit 68 and sebaceous gland 70, method 10 can also be used to treat other glands beside sebaceous glands 70.
    Other glands besides sebaceous glands capable of being treated by method 10 include sweat glands, endocrine glands, and other glands within mammalian bodies. Therefore, method 10 can be used to treat oily hair and skin as well as other ailments besides acne by the methods and systems discussed herein.
    Applying ultrasound energy 72 at ROI 12 raises the temperature within ROI 12 without causing ablation or coagulation of tissue within ROI 12. The increase in temperature causes numerous physiological effects to treat current acne and prevent future acne from occurring. First, in response to the increased temperature caused by ultrasound energy 72 provided from a system 14 configured to emit energy such as ultrasound energy 72, the body sends more blood to ROI 12 in an attempt to cool ROI 12. The increased blood perfusion delivers more blood to the ROI 12. The increased blood at ROI 12 results in increased number of repair cells contained within the blood to be delivered to ROI 12. Specifically, the more blood that flows to ROI 12, the more fibroblast cells and other therapeutic leucocyte cells (white blood cells) such as lymphocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils are at ROI 12 to treat current acne and prevent future acne from developing. The repair cells treat existing acne by helping acne lesions heal faster. Future acne is prevented because more nutrients at ROI 12 are able to fight acne-causing bacteria such as P-acnes.
    Further, the increased temperature of ROI 12 is high enough to where proteins are denatured within the ROI 12. The proteins within ROI 12 that are denatured are the same proteins that P acnes and other acne causing microorganisms eat as a food source. Destroying these proteins by denaturing them eliminates P acnes' food supply contributing to the destruction of these bacteria.
    The denatured proteins and increased temperature of ROI 12 create an environment that is uninhabitable for P acnes, other bacteria and microorganisms that contribute to acne. In an exemplary embodiment, the uninhabitable environment is non-life sustaining for P acnes and other organisms that contribute to acne. These parasites die which also reduces current acne (both mild and severe acne) within patients and prevents acne from forming initially.
    Another physiological effect caused by heating ROI 12 is programmed cell death. While programmed cell death occurs at a natural rate, that rate can be increased by applying heat at non-ablative and non-coagulative levels to ROI 12. Specifically, heat activates certain genes that are responsible for the production of lethal chemicals. These lethal chemicals cause bacteria cells to die in programmed cell death. Heating ROI 12 causes the bacteria to create the lethal chemicals faster than they normally would and effectuates programmed cell death. In an exemplary embodiment, the bacteria are P-acnes and the programmed cell death of P-acnes cells reduces existing acne and prevents further acne from developing.
    Yet another physiological effect is the inhibition of sebum and its production. Sebum and sebum production is inhibited not only by the targeted heat created at ROI 12, but also certain mechanical effects of ultrasound energy 72 has on sebaceous glands 70 and the cells that comprise sebaceous glands 70. The heat, although non-ablative and non-coagulative, causes certain effects to the cells that comprise the sebaceous glands 70. Specifically, heat reduces the cells viability and therefore reduces the sebaceous gland's ability to produce sebum. For example, heating ROI 12 to approximately 52° C. for approximately eight seconds can reduce the viability of certain cells that comprise the sebaceous glands.
    Ultrasound also produces certain mechanical effects on sebaceous glands 70. In an exemplary embodiment, these mechanical effects comprise cavitation, streaming and sheer stress on cellular membranes of cells that comprise sebaceous glands 70. These mechanical effects such as cavitation and streaming create various forces that contact cellular walls of P-acnes and other acne causing organisms which damage or kill them. Further, these mechanical effects can also help drive medicinal creams and other agents into cells to better effectuate treatment as described below. Again, while these mechanical effects are neither ablative nor coagulative, they do cause damage or stress on cells critical to sebum production. This stress reduces the cells' ability to produce an active sebaceous gland 70 and sebum production is inhibited or reduced significantly.
    These physiological effects at ROI 12 create an uninhabitable environment for acne-causing bacteria such as P-acnes and other acne-causing or contributing organisms at ROI 12. Creating this uninhabitable environment reduces the bacteria at ROI 12, specifically the P-acnes population at ROI 12 which treats existing acne and prevents future acne from developing.
    An exemplary system 14 for non-ablative acne treatment is provided and depicted in FIG. 2. Unlike devices that raise the temperate of the skin, method 10 and system 14 are configured to raise the temperature below the surface of the skin and apply heat to the direct area where needed. In an exemplary embodiment, with reference to FIG. 3, an ultrasound system 16 comprising a probe 18, a control system 20, and a display system 22 is used to delivery energy to and monitor ROI 12. Other exemplary systems are disclosed in co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/163,177 entitled “Method and System For Treating Acne and Sebaceous Glands” and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/950,112 entitled “Method and System For Combined Ultrasound Treatment”, both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
    With additional reference to FIG. 4, an exemplary probe 18 is a transducer 19 that emits ultrasound energy 72 into ROI 12 to heat ROI 12 at a specific depth to target pilosebaceous unit 68 and sebaceous gland 70. A coupling agent is used to couple probe 18 to a patient's body in one exemplary embodiment.
    In another exemplary embodiment, suction is used to attach probe 18 to the patient's body. In this exemplary embodiment, a negative pressure differential is created and probe 18 attaches to skin 85 by suction. A vacuum-type device is used to create the suction and the vacuum device can be integral with, detachable, or completely separate from probe 18. The suction attachment of probe 18 to skin 85 and associated negative pressure differential ensures that probe 18 is properly coupled to skin 85. Further, the suction-attachment also reduces the thickness of the tissue to make it easier to reach pilsobaceous unit 68.
    With additional reference to FIGS. 5A and 5B, ultrasound energy 72 can be emitted in various energy fields 73 in this exemplary embodiment. Energy fields 73 can be focused, defocused, and/or made substantially planar by transducer 19 to provide a plurality of different effects. Energy can be applied at one or more points in one or more C-planes or C-scans by automated or manual movement. For example, a substantially planar energy field can provide a heating and/or pretreatment effect, a focused energy field can provide a more concentrated source of heat or hyperthermal effect, and a non-focused energy field can provide diffused heating effects. It should be noted that the term “non-focused” as used throughout is meant to encompass energy that is unfocused or defocused.
    An exemplary transducer 19 emits ultrasound energy for imaging or treatment or a combination of both imaging and treatment. In an exemplary embodiment, transducer 19 is configured to emit ultrasound energy at specific depths in ROI 12 as described below. In this exemplary embodiment of FIG. 5A, transducer 19 emits unfocused or defocused ultrasound energy over a wide area in ROI 12 for treatment purposes.
    With continued reference to FIG. 4, transducer 19 can comprise one or more transducers configured for facilitating treatment. Transducer 19 can also comprise one or more transduction elements 26, e.g., elements 26A or 26B. The transduction elements 26 can comprise a piezoelectrically active material, such as lead zirconante titanate (PZT), or any other piezoelectrically active material, such as a piezoelectric ceramic, crystal, plastic, and/or composite materials, as well as lithium niobate, lead titanate, barium titanate, and/or lead metaniobate. In addition to, or instead of, a piezoelectrically active material, transducer 19 can comprise any other materials configured for generating radiation and/or acoustical energy. Transducer 19 can also comprise one or more matching and/or backing layers configured along with transduction element 26 such as coupled to the piezoelectrically active material. Transducer 19 can also be configured with single or multiple damping elements along transduction element 26.
    In accordance with an exemplary embodiment, the thickness of transduction element 26 of transducer 19 can be configured to be uniform. That is, transduction element 26 can be configured to have a thickness that is substantially the same throughout. In accordance with another exemplary embodiment, transduction element 26 can also be configured with a variable thickness, and/or as a multiple damped device. For example, transduction element 26 of transducer 19 can be configured to have a first thickness selected to provide a center operating frequency of a lower range, for example from approximately 1 kHz to 3 MHz. Transduction element 26 can also be configured with a second thickness selected to provide a center operating frequency of a higher range, for example from approximately 3 to 100 MHz or more.
    Transducer 19 can be configured as a single broadband transducer excited with at least two or more frequencies to provide an adequate output for raising the temperature within ROI 12 to the desired level. Transducer 19 can also be configured as two or more individual transducers, wherein each transducer 19 comprises transduction element 26. The thickness of transduction elements 26 can be configured to provide center-operating frequencies in a desired treatment range. For example, transducer 19 can comprise a first transducer 19 configured with a first transduction element 26 having a thickness corresponding to a center frequency range of approximately 1 MHz to 3 MHz, and a second transducer 19 configured with a second transduction element 26 having a thickness corresponding to a center frequency of approximately 3 MHz to 100 MHz or more. Various other ranges of thickness for a first and/or second transduction element 26 can also be realized.
    Moreover, in an exemplary embodiment, any variety of mechanical lenses or variable focus lenses, e.g. liquid-filled lenses, may also be used to focus and or defocus the energy field. For example, with reference to exemplary embodiments depicted in FIGS. 6A and 6B, transducer 19 may also be configured with an electronic focusing array 24 in combination with one or more transduction elements 26 to facilitate increased flexibility in treating ROI 12. Array 24 may be configured in a manner similar to transducer 19. That is, array 24 can be configured as an array of electronic apertures that may be operated by a variety of phases via variable electronic time delays, for example, T 1, T 2, T 3 . . . T j. By the term “operated,” the electronic apertures of array 24 may be manipulated, driven, used, and/or configured to produce and/or deliver energy in a manner corresponding to the phase variation caused by the electronic time delay. For example, these phase variations can be used to deliver defocused beams, planar beams, and/or focused beams, each of which may be used in combination to achieve different physiological effects in ROI 12.
    Transduction elements 26 may be configured to be concave, convex, and/or planar. For example, in an exemplary embodiment depicted in FIG. 6A, transduction elements 26A are configured to be concave in order to provide focused energy for treatment of ROI 12. Additional embodiments are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/944,500, entitled “System and Method for Variable Depth Ultrasound Treatment”, and again incorporated herein by reference.
    In another exemplary embodiment, depicted in FIG. 6B, transduction elements 26A and 26B can be configured to be substantially flat in order to provide substantially uniform energy to ROI 12. While FIGS. 6A and 6B depict exemplary embodiments with transduction elements 26 configured as concave and substantially flat, respectively, transduction elements 26 can be configured to be concave, convex, and/or substantially flat. In addition, transduction elements 26 can be configured to be any combination of concave, convex, and/or substantially flat structures. For example, a first transduction element 26 can be configured to be concave, while a second transduction element 26 can be configured to be substantially flat.
    With reference to FIGS. 6C and 6D, transducer 19 can also be configured as an annular array to provide planar, focused and/or defocused acoustical energy. For example, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment, an annular array 28 can comprise a plurality of rings 30, 32, 34 to N. Rings 30, 32, 34 to N can be mechanically and electrically isolated into a set of individual elements, and can create planar, focused, or defocused waves. For example, such waves can be centered on-axis, such as by methods of adjusting corresponding transmit and/or receive delays, T 1, T 2, T 3 . . . T N. An electronic focus can be suitably moved along various depth positions, and can enable variable strength or beam tightness, while an electronic defocus can have varying amounts of defocusing. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment, a lens and/or convex or concave shaped annular array 28 can also be provided to aid focusing or defocusing such that any time differential delays can be reduced. Movement of annular array 28 in one, two or three-dimensions, or along any path, such as through use of probes and/or any conventional robotic arm mechanisms, may be implemented to scan and/or treat a volume or any corresponding space within ROI 12.
    With reference to FIG. 6E, an exemplary transducer 570 can also be configured as a spherically focused single element 572, annular/multi-element 574, annular with imaging region(s) 576, line-focused single element 578, 1-D linear array 580, 1-D curved (convex/concave) linear array 582, and/or 2-D array 584, with mechanical focus 585, convex lens focus 586, concave lens focus 587, compound/multiple lens focused 588, and/or planar array form 589 to achieve focused, unfocused, or defocused sound fields for both imaging and/or therapy. In certain exemplary embodiments, spherical lens are used in treating acne and cylindrical lenses are used for preventing acne at ROI 12. Other lens shapes can still be used in other exemplary embodiments of the present invention.
    An exemplary transducer is suitably controlled and operated in various manners by control system 20. In an exemplary embodiment depicted in FIGS. 7A-7C, control system 20 is configured for coordination and control of the entire acne treatment process to achieve the desired therapeutic effect by targeting sebaceous glands 70 within ROI 12. For example, control system 20 can suitably comprise power source components 36, sensing and monitoring components 38, cooling and coupling controls 40, and/or processing and control logic components 42. Control system 20 can be configured and optimized in a variety of ways with more or less subsystems and components to implement the therapeutic system for controlled targeting of the pilosebaceous unit 68 and sebaceous glands 70, and the embodiments in FIGS. 6A and 6B are merely for illustration purposes.
    For example, for power sourcing components 36, control system 20 can comprise one or more direct current (DC) power supplies 44 configured to provide electrical energy for entire control system 20, including power required by a transducer electronic amplifier/driver 48. A DC current sense device 46 can also be provided to confirm the level of power going into amplifiers/drivers 48 for safety and monitoring purposes.
    Amplifiers/drivers 48 can comprise multi-channel or single channel power amplifiers and/or drivers. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment for transducer array configurations, amplifiers/drivers 48 can also be configured with a beamformer to facilitate array focusing. An exemplary beamformer can be electrically excited by an oscillator/digitally controlled waveform synthesizer/oscillator 50 with related switching logic.
    Power sourcing components 36 can also include various filtering configurations 52. For example, switchable harmonic filters and/or matching may be used at the output of amplifier/driver/beamformer 48 to increase the drive efficiency and effectiveness. Power detection components 54 may also be included to confirm appropriate operation and calibration. For example, electric power and other energy detection components 54 may be used to monitor the amount of power going to probe 18.
    Various sensing and monitoring components 38 may also be suitably implemented within control system 20. For example, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment, monitoring, sensing and interface control components 56 may be configured to operate with various motion detection systems implemented within transducer 19 to receive and process information such as acoustic or other spatial and temporal information from ROI 12. Sensing and monitoring components 38 can also include various controls, interfacing and switches 58 and/or power detectors 54. Such sensing and monitoring components 38 can facilitate open-loop and/or closed-loop feedback systems within treatment system 14.
    In an exemplary embodiment, sensing and monitoring components 38 comprise a sensor that is connected to an audio or visual alarm system to prevent overuse of system 14. In this exemplary embodiment, the sensor senses the amount of energy transferred to skin 85 or the time that system 14 has be actively emitting energy. When a certain time or temperature threshold has been reached, the alarm sounds an audible alarm or causes a visual indicator to activate to alert the user that the threshold is reached. This prevents the user from overusing system 14. In an exemplary embodiment, the sensor could be operatively connected to control system 20 and force control system 20 to stop emitting ultrasound energy 72 from probe 18.
    A cooling/coupling control systems 60 may be provided to remove waste heat from an exemplary probe 18, provide a controlled temperature at the superficial tissue interface and deeper into tissue, and/or provide acoustic coupling from probe 18 to ROI 12. Such cooling/coupling control systems 60 can also be configured to operate in both open-loop and/or closed-loop feedback arrangements with various coupling and feedback components.
    Additionally, an exemplary control system 20 can further comprise various system processor and digital control logic 62, such as one or more control or interfacing switches 58 and associated components, including firmware and control software 64, which interfaces to user controls and interfacing circuits as well as input/output circuits and systems for communications, displays, interfacing, storage, documentation, and other useful functions. System software 64 controls all initialization, timing, level setting, monitoring, safety monitoring, and all other system functions required to accomplish user-defined treatment objectives. Further, various control switches 66 can also be suitably configured to control operation.
    With reference to FIG. 7C, an exemplary transducer is suitably controlled and operated in various manners by a hand-held format control system 1000. An external battery charger 1002 can be used with rechargeable-type batteries 1004 or batteries 1004 can be single-use disposable types, such as AA-sized cells. Power converters 1006 produce voltages suitable for powering a driver/feedback circuit 1008 with tuning network 1010 driving a transducer 1012 coupled to the patient via one or more acoustic coupling caps 1014. The cap 1014 can be composed of at least one of a solid media, semi-solid e.g. gelatinous media, and/or liquid media equivalent to an acoustic coupling agent (contained within a housing). The cap 1014 is coupled to the patient with an acoustic coupling agent 1015. In addition, a microcontroller and timing circuits 1016 with associated software and algorithms provide control and user interfacing via a display 1018, oscillator 1020, and other input/output controls 1022 such as switches and audio devices. A storage element 1024, such as an EEPROM, secure EEPROM, tamper-proof EEPROM, or similar device holds calibration and usage data. A motion mechanism with feedback 1026 can be suitably controlled to scan the transducer, if desirable, in a line or two-dimensional pattern and/or with variable depth. Other feedback controls include a capacitive, acoustic, or other coupling detection means and/or limiting controls 1028 and thermal sensor 1030. A combination of the secure EEPROM with at least one of coupling caps 1014, transducer 1012, thermal sensor 1030, coupling detectors 1028, or tuning network 1010 along with a plastic or other housing can comprise a disposable tip 1032.
    With reference again to FIGS. 3 and 4, an exemplary system 14 also includes display system 22 to provide images of the ROI 12 in certain exemplary embodiments wherein ultrasound energy is emitted from transducer 19 in a manner suitable for imaging. Display system can be any type of system that conveys images or information apart from images about system 14 or ROI 12 to the user. Therefore, display system 22 can be a computer monitor, television screen or it can be a simply type of indicator system such a liquid crystal display or light emitting diode display in various exemplary embodiments. Liquid crystal displays and light emitting diode displays are particularly useful when system 14 is a hand-held system.
    Display system 22 enables the user to facilitate localization of the treatment area and surrounding structures, e.g., identification of a pilosebaceous unit 68 and sebaceous glands 70. After localization, delivery of ultrasound energy 72 at a depth, distribution, timing, and energy level to achieve the desired therapeutic effect to treat a sebaceous gland 70 is provided. Before, during, and/or after therapy, i.e., before, during and/or after delivery of ultrasound energy, monitoring of the treatment area and surrounding structures can be conducted to further plan and assess the results and/or providing feedback to control system 20 and a system operator via display system 22.
    In accordance with an exemplary embodiment, localization can be facilitated through ultrasound imaging that can be used to define the position of a sebaceous gland 70 and/or the depth of sebaceous glands 70 in a ROI 12. Such glands can be seen lying along hair follicles and their image may be further enhanced via signal and image processing.
    For ultrasound energy delivery, transducer 19 can be mechanically and/or electronically scanned to place treatment zones over an extended area in ROI 12. A treatment depth can be adjusted between a range of approximately 1 to 10 millimeters, and/or the greatest depth of sebaceous glands 70. Such delivery of energy can occur through imaging of the targeted sebaceous gland 70 and then applying ultrasound energy, or application of ultrasound energy at known depths over an extended area without initial or ongoing imaging.
    With reference to FIG. 5A which depicts one exemplary embodiment, a treated zone 74 may extend over a line, plane, or surface, or over an extended zone across the sebaceous gland depth 76 that typically ranges from approximately 1 to 10 millimeters. Transducer 19 can be mechanically and/or electronically scanned, for example directionally along 78, to extend treatment zone 74 over a large area. Transducer 19 can be further scanned or moved along a longer directional line 80 to further enlarge treatment zone 74. For any treated zone 74, as treated zone 74 increases in depth within ROI 12, the cross sectional area of treated zone 74 may increase in size from small to medium to large.
    The ultrasound beam from transducer 19 can be spatially and/or temporally controlled by changing the spatial parameters of transducer 19, such as the placement, distance, treatment depth and transducer 19 structure, as well as by changing the temporal parameters of transducer 19, such as the frequency, drive amplitude, and timing, with such control handled via control system 20. Such spatial and temporal parameters can also be suitably monitored and/or utilized in open-loop and/or closed-loop feedback systems within ultrasound system 16.
    In accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention, with reference to FIG. 5B, an exemplary monitoring method may comprise monitoring the temperature profile or other tissue parameters of ROI 12, such as attenuation, speed of sound, or mechanical properties such as stiffness and strain of the treatment region and suitably adjust the spatial and/or temporal characteristics and energy levels of ultrasound energy 72 emitted from transducer 19. The results of such monitoring techniques may be indicated on display system 22 by means of one-, two-, or three-dimensional images of monitoring results, or may simply comprise a success or fail-type indicator, or combinations thereof. Additional treatment monitoring techniques may be based on one or more of temperature, video, profilometry, and/or stiffness or strain gauges or any other suitable sensing technique.
    In accordance with another exemplary embodiment, with continued reference to FIGS. 5A and 5B, system 14 can be configured for treatment over an expanded treatment ROI 12 that includes a combination of tissues, such as subcutaneous fat/adipose tissue 82 and muscle 84, among others. Multiple such tissues may be treated including sebaceous glands 70 in combination with at least one of epidermis 86, dermis 88, adipose tissue, muscular fascia lying atop muscle 84, mucous membrane, hair bulb, hair shaft, hair follicle between hair bulb and epidermis 86, blood vessels, apocrine sweat glands, eccrine glands lying within dermis 88, fat 82 or muscle 84, and/or any other tissue of interest.
    In an exemplary embodiment, system 14 will emit energy under various temporal and/or spatial regimes to initiate at least one physiological effect within ROI 12. The physiological effects are the result of the increased temperature within ROI 12. Specifically, system 14 will emit energy within ROI 12 at specific depths between approximately 1-10 millimeters to target pilosebaceous units 68 and specifically sebaceous glands 70. In a particular exemplary embodiment, the heating occurs at a depth of approximately 1-5 millimeters to target pilosebaceous units 68.
    While most pilosebaceous units 68 are located approximately 1-3 millimeters below the surface of skin 85, pilosebaceous units 68, particularly sebaceous glands 70 can swell which increases their depth below skin 85. In certain situations, the depth can be below 5 millimeters. Ultrasound energy 72 can still reach effectively target these inflamed sebaceous glands 70 at any depth below skin 85. In certain exemplary embodiments, the depth of these swollen sebaceous glands can be approximately 10 millimeters below the surface of skin 85.
    Any amount of energy can be used during method 10 as long as the tissue within ROI 12 is not ablated or coagulated. In an exemplary embodiment, the energy emitted from probe 18 is unfocused or defocused ultrasound energy 72. Alternatively, focused ultrasound energy 72 could be emitted from probe 18 and applied to ROI 12.
    In certain exemplary embodiments, system 14 is equipped with certain features to aid the user. One feature is a disposable tip that covers probe 18 during use. The disposable tip enables ultrasound energy 72 to pass through the tip and contact the patient. But, the disposable tip can be removed from probe 18 after use and replaced with a new disposable tip to prevent the spread of germs from one patient to another that might reside on probe 18 after contact with a patient's skin 85. Different size disposable tips can be used and fall within the scope of the present invention.
    In one exemplary embodiment, the energy released into ROI 12 increases the local temperature within ROI 12 from approximately 1°-25° C. over a body's normal temperature. Therefore the temperature within ROI 12 during treatment is between approximately 35°-60° C. In another exemplary embodiment, the temperature is raised approximately 1°-15° C. over a body's normal temperature. Therefore, in this embodiment, the temperature within ROI 12 is between approximately 35°-49° C. While specific temperature ranges are disclosed herein, it should be noted that any temperature is considered to fall within the scope of the present invention.
    In certain embodiments, the temperature increase may be very high but applied for a short enough time period so that the energy delivered to ROI 12 does not cause tissue ablation or coagulation. In other situations, the temperature increase may be fairly small and applied long enough to effect sebaceous glands 70 without causing tissue ablation or coagulation.
    The time-temperature profile for method 10 can be modeled and optimized with the aid of the thermal dose concept. The thermal dose, or 43, is the exposure time at 43° C. which causes an equivalent biological effect due to an arbitrary time-temperature heating profile. Typically an ablative lesion forms on the order of one second at 56° C., which corresponds to a thermal dose of one hundred and twenty minutes at 43° C. The same thermal dose corresponds to 50° C. for approximately one minute. Thus a non-ablative profile can contain high temperatures for very short times and/or lower temperatures for longer times or a combination of various time-temperature profiles. For example, temperatures as high as 56° C. for under one second or 46° C. for under fifteen minutes can be utilized. Such processes can be implemented in various exemplary embodiments, whereby one or more profiles may be combined into a single treatment.
    In an exemplary embodiment the temperature at ROI 12 is raised to a high level, such as approximately 50° C. or more and held for several seconds. In another exemplary embodiment, the temperature is raised to a high level, (for example greater than 50° C.), for under one second up to five seconds or more, and then turned off for under one second up to five seconds or more, and repeated to create a pulsed profile.
    In another exemplary embodiment, the temperature is raised quickly to a high level (greater than 50° C.), and then dropped to a lower temperature (less than 50° C.), and then maintained at that temperature for a given time period such as one second up to several seconds or over a minute.
    In another exemplary embodiment, the temperature is increased quickly to a high level (THIGH), whereby THIGH is greater than 40° C., and the power to system 14 is turned off, but turned on again once the temperature drops below a lower threshold, (TLOW), whereby TLOW is less than THIGH. Once the temperature reaches THIGH again power to system 14 is turned back off and this process is repeated, in effect acting like a thermostat. The process is terminated after a total treatment time of under one second to one minute or more.
    In another exemplary embodiment, the temperature is raised quickly to a high level (TSTART), whereby TSTART is greater than 40° C. and then turned off, but turned on again before the temperature drops appreciably (i.e. by a few degrees) below TSTART, whereby the temperature may then increase a small amount (i.e. by a few degrees) over TSTART before the power is turned off again. In such an exemplary embodiment the temperature quickly reaches a starting point and then may be allowed to increase to a higher temperature yet still remain in a non-ablative or coagulative regime before the treatment is ended.
    In accordance with another exemplary embodiment, an exemplary system 14 can also be configured to assist in drug delivery. In one exemplary embodiment, system 14 can be used for drug delivery as depicted in FIG. 3. In this embodiment, a medicinal agent 96 such as a cream is applied directly to the patient's skin 85 prior to the probe 18 being placed on skin 85. Medicinal agent 96 can contain medications or be otherwise useful in treating a patient. In an exemplary embodiment, medicinal agent 96 contains drugs used to treat acne or otherwise improve the condition of the patient's skin.
    In an exemplary embodiment, medicinal agent 96 is also used to couple probe 18 to skin 85. Therefore, medicinal agent 96 can have multiple uses. First, medicinal agent 96 is used to couple probe 18 to skin 85. Second, since medicinal agent 96 contains drugs and other medicines, the medicines and drugs are delivered to the skin when energy is applied from probe 18. Finally, in an exemplary embodiment, the medicines and drugs within medicinal agent 96 are used for skin treatment. Therefore, as the patient is being treated by the application of energy at non-ablative levels, therapeutic drugs are also being administered to the patient to treat skin disorders such as acne.
    The delivery of medicinal agent 96 can be enhanced by the application of ultrasound energy 72. Specifically, the heating at ROI 12 can cause better diffusion of medicinal agent 96 through the skin at ROI 12. Further, the mechanical effects of ultrasound energy 72 such as cavitation can also physically drive or push medicinal agent 96 through the skin and into ROI 12.
    The application of ultrasound energy 72 to medicinal agent 96 can have certain advantages in the treatment of the patient. The efficacy of certain medicinal agents 96 can be increased by the application of ultrasound energy 72. Moreover, the efficiency of delivery of medicinal agent 96 can be increased by applying ultrasound energy 72 to medicinal agent 96. Further, certain medicinal agents 96 are inactive until they are exposed to energy or heat and the application of ultrasound energy 72 to medicinal agent 96 activates medicinal agent 96.
    After medicinal agent 96 has been applied to skin 85, system 14 is used as normal and the increased heat below skin 85 within ROI 12 helps couple the drugs within medicinal agent 96 to the patient's body through known drug delivery techniques.
    In addition to treating existing acne, method 10 can be used to prevent further acne from reoccurring at ROI 12. The same physiological effects described above that treat existing acne, also prevent new acne from occurring. Therefore, continuing to treat a patient with method 10 after existing acne has been treated new acne does not develop at ROI 12.
    The present invention may be described herein in terms of various functional components and processing steps. It should be appreciated that such components and steps may be realized by any number of hardware components configured to perform the specified functions. For example, the present invention may employ various medical treatment devices, visual imaging and display devices, input terminals and the like, which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more control systems or other control devices. In addition, the present invention may be practiced in any number of medical contexts and that the exemplary embodiments relating to a system as described herein are merely indicative of exemplary applications for the invention. For example, the principles, features and methods discussed may be applied to any medical application. Further, various aspects of the present invention may be suitably applied to other applications, such as other medical or industrial applications.

1. A method for treating acne comprising:
targeting ultrasound energy to an area comprising a pilosebaceous unit; wherein the ultrasound energy raises the temperature within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit at specific depths below a patient's skin; wherein the ultrasound energy is enough to effect tissue within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit without causing ablation or coagulation of tissue within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit; and wherein the raised temperature within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit causes physiological effects that treat acne within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit. 

  
 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the physiological effects are increased blood perfusion, the denaturing of proteins, programmed cell death, decreasing sebum and its production, and creation of an uninhabitable environment for organisms that contribute to acne.

  
 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the organisms are bacteria.

  
 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein sebaceous glands and their contents within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit are particularly affected by the increased blood perfusion, the denaturing of proteins, programmed cell death, decreased sebum and its production, and creation of uninhabitable environment for organisms that contribute to acne.

  
 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein the specific depth is in a range of approximately 1-10 millimeters.

  
 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the temperature within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit is raised to 35°-49° C.

  
 7. A method for treating acne comprising:
providing a transducer probe that emits unfocused ultrasound energy; providing a control system comprising a sensor that operatively controls the emission of unfocused ultrasound energy from the transducer probe; targeting the ultrasound energy to an area comprising a pilosebaceous unit; emitting ultrasound energy from the transducer probe until a predetermined threshold of non-ablation is reached wherein the predetermined threshold is sensed by the sensor; wherein the ultrasound energy raises the temperature within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit at a depth of approximately 1-10 millimeters; wherein the ultrasound energy is enough to effect tissue within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit without causing ablation or coagulation of tissue within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit; and wherein the raised temperature within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit causes at least two of:
increased blood perfusion,
the denaturing of proteins,
the inhibition of sebum production, and
programmed cell death.
 

  
 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the temperature is raised to greater than 50° C. or more and maintained at that level for more than five seconds.

  
 9. The method according to claim 7 wherein the temperature is raised and lowered creating a pulsed profile.

  
 10. The method according to claim 7 wherein sebaceous glands and their contents within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit are affected but not destroyed.

  
 11. The method according to claim 7 further comprising the step of applying a medicinal agent to the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit before the step of targeting ultrasound energy to the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit.

  
 12. An ultrasound treatment system for the non-ablative treatment of acne comprising:
a control system for facilitating control of the ultrasound treatment system and controlling whether the ultrasound treatment system emits ultrasound energy or does not emit ultrasound energy wherein the control system further comprises a sensor that senses whether a predetermined threshold is reached and directs that the control system emit or not emit ultrasound energy depending on the existence of the predetermined threshold; a probe configured for the targeted delivery of the ultrasound energy to an area comprising inflamed sebaceous glands. 

  
 13. The ultrasound treatment system according to claim 13 wherein the predetermined threshold is an ablative application of ultrasound energy.

  
 14. A method for treating acne and delivering drugs to a patient comprising:
applying a medicinal agent to an area comprising a pilosebaceous unit; targeting ultrasound energy to the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit; wherein the ultrasound energy raises the temperature within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit by 1-15° C.; wherein the ultrasound energy targeted is enough to affect tissue within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit without causing ablation or coagulation of tissue within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit; wherein the raised temperature within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit causes a physiological effect that treats acne within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit; and wherein the raised temperature facilitates the delivery of drugs within the medicinal agent to the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit. 

  
 15. The method according to claim 14 wherein the medicinal agent couples a probe that emits the ultrasound energy to a patient's skin.

  
 16. The method according to claim 14 wherein the medicinal agent contains medicines used for skin treatment.

  
 17. The method according to claim 14 wherein the physiological effect is increased blood perfusion at the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit.

  
 18. The method according to claim 17 further comprising a second physiological effect which is the denaturing of proteins within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit.

  
 19. The method according to claim 18 further comprising a third physiological effect which is the creation of an uninhabitable habitat for organisms that contribute to acne within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit.

  
 20. The method according to claim 19 further comprising a fourth physiological effect which is programmed cell death.

  
 21. The method according to claim 20 further comprising a fifth physiological effect which is the inhibition of sebum and its production.

  
 22. A method for treating acne comprising:
providing a probe that emits ultrasound energy; coupling the probe to an area comprising a pilosebaceous unit; targeting ultrasound energy from the probe to the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit and; wherein the ultrasound energy has certain mechanical effects on cells within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit at specific depths; wherein the ultrasound energy is enough to effect tissue within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit without causing ablation or coagulation of tissue within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit; and wherein the mechanical effects within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit cause a physiological effect that treats acne within the area comprising a pilosebaceous unit. 

  
 23. The method according to claim 22 wherein the mechanical effects comprise cavitation.

  
 24. The method according to claim 22 wherein the mechanical effects comprise sheer stress on the cellular wall of cells comprising a sebaceous gland.

  
 25. The method according to claim 22 wherein the mechanical effects comprise streaming.

  
 26. The ultrasound treatment system according to claim 13 wherein the ultrasound energy is only emitted below the predetermined threshold of ablation at the areas comprising inflamed sebaceous glands.

  
 27. The ultrasound treatment system according to claim 13 further comprising an alarm connected to the sensor wherein the alarm is activated when the predetermined threshold is reached.

  
 28. The ultrasound treatment system according to claim 13 wherein the predetermined threshold is the application of ultrasound energy for a duration of one second at a temperature of 56° C.

  
 29. The ultrasound treatment system according to claim 13 wherein the predetermined threshold is a thermal dose of t43.

  
 30. The ultrasound treatment system according to claim 12 wherein the control system further comprises software that contains data wherein the data comprises at least one characteristic of the predetermined threshold that when reached results in the control system preventing the ultrasound treatment system from emitting energy.