Source: [US20100179424A1](https://patents.google.com/patent/US20100179424A1)

# [US20100179424A1](US20100179424A1.md) - Methods and apparatus for treatment of mitral valve insufficiency

## Details

* Date: 2009-01-09
* Inventor: Recor Medical Inc
* Beneficiary: Reinhard Warnking, Eugene J. Jung, Yong Zou, Jacques Seguin, Mano Iyer

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * US3168659A
 * [US4185501A](US4185501A.md)
 * US4194510A
 * US4433692A
 * US4643186A
 * US4650466A
 * US4722347A
 * US4800316A
 * US4813934A
 * US4983169A
 * US5281213A
 * US5281218A
 * US5282785A
 * US5293868A
 * [US5295484A](US5295484A.md)
 * US5384010A
 * [US5385148A](US5385148A.md)
 * [US5391197A](US5391197A.md)
 * US5484400A
 * US5488955A
 * US5492532A
 * US5498238A
 * US5499971A
 * [US5596989A](US5596989A.md)
 * US5599345A
 * US5606974A
 * [US5704361A](US5704361A.md)
 * US5707352A
 * US5713849A
 * [US5720287A](US5720287A.md)
 * US5722397A
 * US5722401A
 * US5861021A
 * US5860974A
 * US5863291A
 * US5865801A
 * US5865787A
 * US5868741A
 * US5868708A
 * US5871449A
 * [US5876399A](US5876399A.md)
 * US5882333A
 * US6011995A
 * US6009877A
 * US6012457A
 * US6013053A
 * US6015437A
 * US6022319A
 * US6026326A
 * US6024740A
 * US6033402A
 * US6171306B1
 * US6190382B1
 * [US6190353B1](US6190353B1.md)
 * US6193713B1
 * US20020002329A1
 * US6347247B1
 * US20020019627A1
 * US20020022833A1
 * US6506189B1
 * US20030013968A1
 * US20030018367A1
 * US6513385B1
 * US6514249B1
 * US6517811B2
 * US6517536B2
 * US6522930B1
 * US6672312B2
 * US20040010289A1
 * US6837886B2
 * US6840936B2
 * US20050010270A1
 * US6845267B2
 * US6850801B2
 * US20050171524A1
 * US20050215949A1
 * US6984232B2
 * US20060009753A1
 * US6990370B1
 * US20060025821A1
 * US6997925B2
 * US20060041277A1
 * US7004911B1
 * US7158832B2
 * US7162303B2
 * US20080004673A1
 * US20080015659A1
 * US20080039904A1
 * US20080086073A1
 * US20080108988A1
 * US20090024195A1
 * US7653438B2
 * US7864275B2
 * US20110004184A1
 * US7873417B2
 * US7881809B2
 * US20120004656A1
 * US8347891B2
### Forward
 * WO2011053757A1
 * WO2012051472A1
 * US8489192B1
 * US8585594B2
 * CN103458968A
 * US20140046353A1
 * US8740895B2
 * US8808280B2
 * US8845629B2
 * US8911439B2
 * US9149328B2
 * JP2015531259A
 * EP2866669A4
 * US9339618B2
 * US9398933B2
 * US9421025B2
 * US9486270B2
 * [US9700372B2](US9700372B2.md)
 * US9757180B2
 * US9795784B2
 * US9808303B2
 * US9814476B2
 * US9955946B2
 * US10230041B2
 * US10335280B2
 * US10350440B2
 * US10357264B2
 * US10589130B2
 * US10646240B2
## Abstract

Abstract

Mitral valve insufficiency is treated by introducing an expansible device such as a balloon bearing a an ultrasonic transducer into the heart so that the transducer is positioned adjacent the mitral annulus but spaced from the mitral annulus, and actuating the transducer to heat the mitral annulus, denature collagen in the annulus and thereby shrink the annulus.



Mitral valve insufficiency is treated by introducing an expansible device such as a balloon bearing a an ultrasonic transducer into the heart so that the transducer is positioned adjacent the mitral annulus but spaced from the mitral annulus, and actuating the transducer to heat the mitral annulus, denature collagen in the annulus and thereby shrink the annulus.

I. CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/204,744, filed Jan. 9, 2009 and entitled “Treatment of Mitral Valve Insufficiency,” the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.
 I. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to treatment of cardiac valves in a mammalian subject.
    Humans and other mammals have a four-chambered heart. Blood from the body flows into the right atrium, and from the right atrium through the tricuspid valve to right ventricle. The right ventricle pumps the blood through the pulmonary arteries to the lungs. Blood from the lungs returns through the pulmonary veins to the left atrium, and flows from the left atrium through the mitral valve, into the left ventricle. The left ventricle, in turn, pumps the blood through the body. As the heart beats, the atria contract to pump the blood into the ventricles, and then the ventricles contract, during a phase of the heart rhythm referred to as “systole,” to pump the blood through the lungs and through the body.
    For proper pumping action, the mitral valve must close when the left ventricle contracts. In a disease state known as mitral valve insufficiency, the mitral valve does not close properly, and a significant portion of the blood in the left ventricle is pumped back from the ventricle into the left atrium when the left ventricle contracts. This diminishes the pumping efficiency of the heart. Mitral valve insufficiency is a relatively common condition and afflicts about 4 million people in the United States alone, with about 250,000 new diagnoses of this condition every year. About 50,000 procedures are done every year to alleviate mitral valve insufficiency.
    One surgical approach involves implantation of a porcine valve or a mechanical valve in place of the mitral valve. This procedure requires open heart surgery with long recuperation time, and exposes the patient to high risk of complications. Many of the individuals who need mitral valve repair are elderly, which tends to aggravate the difficulties associated with open heart surgery.
    Another common surgical approach to repairing mitral valve insufficiency is annuloplasty. In this approach, a wire is wrapped around the mitral annulus, a ring of collagenous tissue surrounding the opening of the mitral valve, to contract the annulus. This improves the performance of the mitral valve. The mitral valve has two major leaves. If the opening of the valve is contracted, as by annuloplasty, the leaves are positioned closer to one another and form a better seal during systole. Annuloplasty as commonly practiced requires a major thoracic surgery with substantial recuperation time and risk of complications.
    As disclosed, for example, in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,306,133; 6,355,030; 6,485,489; 6,669,687; and 7,229,469, it has been proposed to insert a catheter-like device bearing a transducer such as an electrode or ultrasonic transducer into the heart and actuate the transducer so as to heat the mitral annulus, denature the collagen fibers which constitute the annulus, and thereby shrink the annulus. In theory, such a procedure could bring about shrinkage of the annulus and repair mitral insufficiency in much the same manner as traditional annuloplasty. However, all of these proposals have involved positioning of one or more transducers in contact with the mitral annulus during the procedure. It is difficult to provide such accurate positioning of a transducer within a beating heart. Although it is possible to momentarily halt the heartbeat, perform the procedure and then restart the heart, this adds considerable risk to the procedure. Moreover, localized heating of the annulus by a transducer in contact with the annulus introduces the further risk of damage to the epithelial cells overlying the annulus with attendant risk of thrombus formation after surgery.
    Perhaps for these reasons, none of these proposals has been widely adopted. Accordingly, prior to the present invention, there has remained a need for a useful and reliable procedure for mitral valve repair.
 II. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   One aspect of the present invention provides methods of treating a cardiac valve such as the mitral valve of a human or other mammalian subject. Methods according to this aspect of the present invention desirably include the step of positioning an emitter unit which incorporates an ultrasonic transducer in proximity to the valve without completely occluding the annulus of the valve. The positioning step desirably is performed so that the ultrasonic transducer is spaced apart from the annulus itself. For example, the emitter unit desirably includes an expansible structure such as a balloon, and the ultrasonic transducer is disposed within the expansible structure so that the when the structure is expanded to an operative condition, at least a portion of the structure is spaced apart from the ultrasonic transducer. Thus, when the structure is positioned in engagement with the mitral annulus, the transducer is spaced apart from the mitral annulus. Desirably, the transducer is also cooled by circulating fluid in the balloon to prevent any thrombus formation caused by heating of the transducer during operation.
    As further discussed below, the expansible structure may be brought into engagement with the left posterior aspect of the mitral annulus so that the ultrasonic transducer is disposed within the annulus, closer to the posterior aspect than to the anterior aspect of the mitral annulus, and closer to the right aspect of the mitral annulus than to the left aspect, but nonetheless spaced apart from the posterior and left aspects. The transducer may be actuated so as to emit ultrasonic waves. The ultrasonic waves tend to heat the posterior and left aspects of the mitral annulus preferentially. As further discussed below, heating of the posterior aspect is particularly desirable, in that the posterior aspect is rich in collagen and tends to shrink readily with heating.
    Preferably, the expansible structure in its expanded condition does not completely occlude the opening of the mitral valve. For example, where the expansible structure incorporates a balloon, the balloon desirably has a maximum diameter smaller than the diameter of the mitral annulus. The step of advancing the emitter unit may include advancing an elongated catheter having the emitter unit mounted thereon into a chamber of the heart, and positioning the catheter so as to position the expansible structure within the annulus of the valve. Where the valve to be treated is the mitral annulus, the catheter desirably is advanced into the left atrium through the right atrium, and through an opening formed in the inter-atrial septum. The step of advancing the catheter may include advancing a delivery sheath into the chamber of the heart and steering a distal region of the sheath, and advancing the catheter through the sheath. For example, the delivery sheath may be advanced into the left atrium, whereupon a distal portion of the sheath is steered in a downward direction, toward the mitral annulus.
    The method preferably further includes the step of placing a guidewire extending through the catheter so that the guidewire extends from the left atrium through the mitral valve and into the left ventricle, and the positioning step includes positioning the catheter on the guidewire so that the portion of the catheter bearing the emitter unit is at least partially positioned within the mitral annulus by the guidewire.
    As further discussed below, the steerable sheath desirably in combination with the guidewire provides a relatively simple and reliable way of positioning the emitter unit, which allows the emitter unit to remain in place in the beating heart long enough to perform the procedure.
    Methods of treating mitral valve insufficiency according to a further aspect of the invention desirably include the step of preferentially applying energy to a selected portion of the mitral annulus, which portion is remote from the aortic valve, so as to heat and contract collagen in that portion of the annulus and thereby shrink the mitral annulus. Methods according to this aspect of the invention may include steps similar to those discussed above, and preferably include applying energy to the mitral annulus by positioning a transducer spaced from the selected portion of the annulus, but closer to the selected portion of the annulus than to other portions of the annulus, and actuating the transducer. Most preferably, the transducer is an ultrasonic transducer.
    Yet another aspect of the invention provides apparatus for treating a cardiac valve of a mammalian subject. Apparatus according to this aspect of the invention desirably includes an elongated catheter having proximal and distal regions and an emitter unit including an ultrasonic transducer and an expansible structure carried on the distal region of the catheter. Most preferably, the expansible structure is constructed and arranged to hold the transducer spaced apart from an annulus of the valve when the expansible structure is in an operative, expanded condition, and the emitter unit is disposed in proximity to the valve. The expansible structure most preferably is constructed and arranged so that the expansible unit will not completely occlude the annulus of the valve. The expansible structure also may be arranged to preferentially position the transducer within the mitral valve annulus so that the left posterior aspect of the annulus lies within the near field region of the transducer.
    Apparatus according to this aspect of the invention most desirably further includes a delivery sheath having proximal and distal ends, and a sheath steering structure carried on the sheath and operative to selectively bend a region of the sheath. The catheter and the emitter unit desirably are constructed and arranged so that the distal region of the catheter and the emitter unit can be advanced into a chamber of the heart through the sheath. The catheter may also include a catheter steering mechanism carried on the catheter and operative to selectively bend a bend region of the catheter proximal to the emitter unit. The apparatus may also include a guidewire, the catheter being constructed and arranged so that the catheter can be advanced over the guidewire, the guidewire can be advanced through the catheter, or both.
    Most preferably, the expansible element includes a balloon, and the balloon has a major diameter smaller than the major diameter of the annulus of the valve to be treated. For example, where the apparatus is intended to treat the mitral valve of a human subject, the balloon desirably has a major diameter of about 30 mm or less. Desirably, the balloon has a proximal portion and a distal portion extending distal to the proximal portion. The distal portion of the balloon desirably has a smaller cross-sectional area than the proximal portion of the balloon when the balloon is in an inflated condition. As further discussed below, the transition between the proximal and distal portions of the balloon may be used to mechanically engage the mitral annulus so as to further stabilize the position of the balloon and transducer during the procedure.
    In alternative embodiments the expansible structure comprises two or more individually extendable wires that may to selectively deployed to permit the balloon to be stabilized at a preferred position within the mitral valve annulus.
    Further objects, features, and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed described of the preferred embodiments set forth below, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.
 
III. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    FIG. 1 is a diagrammatic view of a component used in apparatus according to one embodiment of the invention.
     FIG. 2 is a fragmentary diagrammatic view of the component shown in FIG. 1 in a different operating condition.
     FIG. 3 is a diagrammatic view depicting a further component of the apparatus according to the embodiment of FIGS. 1 and 2.
     FIG. 4 is a diagrammatic coronal sectional view of a human heart with the apparatus of FIGS. 1-3 in an operative condition.
     FIG. 5 is a diagrammatic axial sectional view of the heart along line 5-5 in FIG. 4, also in conjunction with the apparatus of FIGS. 1-3, but with the atria of the heart removed for clarity of illustration.
     FIGS. 6 and 7 are graphs depicting results achieved in certain experiments.
     FIG. 8 is a fragmentary diagrammatic sectional view of apparatus according to a further embodiment of the invention.
     FIGS. 9A and 9B, are respectively, a plan view depicting apparatus according to an alternative embodiment of the invention and a detailed view of the distal end of the apparatus.
     FIG. 10 is a diagrammatic axial sectional view of the heart similar to that of FIG. 5, showing positioning of the apparatus of FIG. 9 within the mitral valve, again with the atria of the heart removed for clarity of illustration.
     FIG. 11 is a diagrammatic sectional view depicting apparatus according to yet a further embodiment of the invention.
     FIG. 12 is a diagrammatic sectional view depicting apparatus according to yet another embodiment of the invention.
 
IV. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   Referring to FIGS. 1-3, apparatus according to one embodiment of the invention includes sheath 10 and energy-emitting catheter 30.
    Sheath 10 generally is in the form of an elongated tube having proximal end 12, distal end 14 and proximal-to-distal axis 13. As used in this disclosure with reference to elongated elements for insertion into the body, the term “distal” refers to the end which is inserted into the body first, i.e., the leading end during advancement of the element into the body, whereas the term “proximal” refers to the opposite end. Sheath 10 has interior bore 15 extending between its proximal and distal ends. Desirably, sheath 10 includes relatively stiff wall section 16 extending from its proximal end to juncture 18, and relatively limber distal wall section 20 extending from juncture 18 to distal end 14. Pull wire 22 is slidably mounted in proximal wall structure 16 and connected to distal wall section 20. Pull wire 22 is linked to pull wire control device 24, which can be manipulated by a physician during use of the apparatus. By actuating the pull wire control, the physician can pull on wire 22 and bend the distal region of the sheath in a predetermined direction transverse to the proximal-to-distal direction, as depicted schematically in FIG. 2. The structure of sheath 10 and pull wire control 24 may be generally as shown in U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2006-0270976 (“the '976 Publication”), the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. As discussed in greater detail in the '976 Publication, transition 18 desirably is oblique to the proximal-to-distal axis 13 of the sheath, with stiff section 16 extending to distal-most point 25 on a first side of the sheath, and the pull wire desirably is arranged to bend the sheath only in the direction toward the first side.
    Sheath 10 desirably also is arranged so that at least the proximal section is “torquable.” That is, at least the proximal section of the sheath is arranged to transmit torsional motion about axis 13 from proximal end 12 along the axial extent of the sheath. Thus, by turning the proximal end of the sheath, the distal end of the sheath can be rotated about proximal-to-distal axis 13. As best appreciated with reference to FIG. 2, when the sheath is in the curved or bent configuration achieved by tension on the pull wire, rotational motion of the distal end will swing the bent section around proximal-to-distal axis 13. Thus, by combined pulling on the pull wire and rotational motion, distal end 14 of the sheath can be aimed in essentially any desired direction. As disclosed in the aforementioned '976 Publication, the pull wire control can be incorporated into a handle which is physically attached to proximal end 12 of the sheath. Thus, the physician can maneuver the sheath by actuating the pull wire control and turning the handle, desirably with one hand, during the procedure.
    Referring now to FIG. 3, the inventive apparatus further includes elongated catheter 30 configured to be inserted through interior bore 15 of sheath 10. Catheter 30 has proximal end 32, distal end 34 and proximal-to-distal axis 33. Catheter 32 desirably incorporates principal bore 36 extending from its proximal end to its distal end. The catheter, like sheath 10 discussed above, may incorporate relatively stiff proximal wall portion 38 and relatively limber distal wall portion 40, with transition 42 between the proximal and distal wall sections. The catheter may be equipped with pull wire 44 which is linked to pull wire control 46. These structural features may be similar to those discussed above with reference to the sheath. Here again, the pull wire control may be actuated to bend the catheter in directions transverse to proximal-to-distal axis 33 of the catheter. The catheter also may be torquable about its axis, so that the distal end of the catheter can be bent in directions transverse to proximal-to-distal axis 33 of the catheter, and rotated around the axis as discussed above in connection with sheath 10.
    An expansible structure, illustratively in the form of balloon 50 is mounted to distal end 34 of catheter 30. In the inflated, operative condition depicted, the balloon is generally in the form of a surface of revolution about a central axis coincident with proximal-to-distal axis 33 of the catheter. Balloon 50 has proximal section 52 with diameter dp of about 20 mm, and distal section 54 which has a maximum diameter dd at juncture 56 between distal section 54 and proximal section 52. Distal section 54 tapers inwardly from this diameter to tip 58 at the distal end of the balloon. The balloon has a relatively abrupt change in diameter over relatively short transition 60 between the proximal section and the distal section. Desirably, the balloon is formed from a polymer such as nylon and has a wall thickness of about 8 microns to about 30 microns. The dimensions of the balloon are given in the inflated condition shown in FIG. 3. When deflated, the balloon desirably collapse inwardly to form a relatively small diameter structure. The balloon may be fabricated by blow-molding using techniques that are known in the art.
    A tubular, cylindrical ultrasonic transducer 66 is mounted inside balloon 50. Transducer 66 desirably is coaxial or nearly coaxial with the balloon, and is arranged so that the transducer extends axially over at least part of the transition region 60 of the balloon. The axial center point of the transducer may be disposed at an axial location near the juncture between proximal portion 52 and distal portion 54 of the balloon, so that part of the axial length of the transducer is disposed within proximal potion 52 and part of the axial length of the transducer is disposed within distal portion 54. Merely by way of example, transducer 66 may have an axial length of about 6 mm and an outside diameter of about. 2-3 mm. The proximal end of the transducer may be in transition region 60 or in proximal region 52 of the balloon. Transducer 66 is carried on tubular metallic support 68 extending from distal end 34 of catheter 30 to tip 58 of the balloon. Support 68 defines an interior bore (not shown) which communicates with main bore 36 of catheter 30. The tubular support 68 extends to distal tip 58 of the balloon so that the interior of tubular support 68 communicates with the exterior of the balloon through port 70 at the distal tip of the balloon. Transducer 66 is mounted on the support so that interior wall 72 of the tubular transducer is spaced apart from exterior wall of support 68. The space between the interior of the transducer and the exterior of the support communicates with the interior space within balloon 50. As disclosed, for example, in U.S. Published Patent Application No. 20060270975, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein, support 68 may include telescopic elements which move axially with respect to one another to accommodate inflation and deflation of the balloon. Transducer 66 desirably is formed from a ceramic piezoelectric material. The tubular transducer has metallic coatings (not shown) on its interior and exterior surfaces. These metallic coatings are connected to a ground wire and a signal wire (not shown) which extend through wiring support tube 74 to the distal end of the catheter. These wires extend through catheter 30 to the proximal end of the catheter, and are configured to be connected to ultrasonic excitation source 76. Metallic support tube 68 and transducer 66 desirably are configured so that the interior surface of the tubular transducer is spaced apart from the exterior surface of tube 68 by a gap distance which corresponds to approximately one-half the wavelength of the ultrasonic energy to be applied, i.e., about 83 microns for 9 MHz ultrasonic energy propagating in water. As further discussed below, this promotes efficient operation of the transducer, with ultrasonic energy reflected at the exterior surface of support tube 66 reinforcing ultrasonic energy propagating within the transducer, so as to provide ultrasonic energy directed outwardly from external surface 66 of the transducer.
    The interior space within balloon 50 is connected to circulation device 80 for circulating a liquid, preferably an aqueous liquid, through the balloon. Device 80 includes inflow pump 82 and outflow pump 84. The inflow pump is connected to inflow passage 86 extending through catheter 30 to the balloon, whereas outflow pump 84 is connected to separate outflow passage 88 extending through the catheter to the balloon. Pumps 82 and 84 are connected to coolant circuit 90 for supplying a liquid coolant, desirably an aqueous liquid such as saline solution. The coolant circuit 90 may include elements such as a tank for holding the circulating coolant, a refrigerating coil, or the like for providing a supply of liquid at a controlled temperature, desirably at or below body temperature. The circulation device also includes a control circuit (not shown) for controlling the flow into and out of the balloon. Merely by way of example, the control elements may include motor control devices linked to drive motors associated with pumps 84 and 82 for controlling the speed of operation of the pumps. Such motor control devices can be used, for example, where the pumps are positive displacement pumps such as peristaltic pumps. Alternatively or additionally, the control elements may include structures such as controllable valves connected in the fluid circuit for varying resistance of the circuit to fluid flow. A pressure sensor (not shown) optionally may be mounted in the balloon and electrically connected to the control circuitry. As further discussed below, during operation, circulation device 80 continually circulates the aqueous fluid through the balloon and maintains the balloon under a desired pressure, most preferably about 3 pounds per square inch (20 Kpa).
    Referring now to FIGS. 4 and 5, in a method according to one embodiment of the invention, a conventional device such as a Brockenbaugh needle is advanced through the venous system as, for example, through the inferior vena cava and into the right atrium. The needle is used to form a puncture P (FIG. 4) through the inter-atrial septum IAS dividing the right atrium RA from the left atrium LA. After the puncture the needle is withdrawn and sheath 10 is advanced over a dilator. Guidewire 92 may be advanced into the left atrium, and optionally through the mitral valve MV into the left ventricle.
    Sheath 10 then is advanced over guidewire 92 until distal end 14 of the sheath extends into the left atrium through puncture P. During this step, the dilator (not shown) may be disposed within bore 14 of sheath 10, so that the dilator surrounds the guidewire and the sheath surrounds the dilator. Once the sheath has been advanced into the left atrium, the dilator may be removed. With balloon 50 in a deflated condition, catheter 30 is advanced over guidewire 92 and through bore 14 of sheath 10. During this advancement, the guidewire extends through port 70 and through support tube 68 and main bore 36 of the catheter. Catheter 30 is advanced until distal end 34 of the catheter and balloon 50 project out from the distal end of sheath 10. Once balloon 50 is disposed within the left atrium, circulation apparatus 80 (shown in FIG. 1) is actuated to inflate the balloon to the desired pressure, desirably about 3 psi (20 Kpa).
    Sheath 10 is steered so as to aim the distal end of the sheath downwardly toward the mitral valve MV and rearwardly, toward the posterior surface of the heart and the posterior aspect of the mitral valve ring, also referred to as the annulus fibrosus. This is accomplished by bending the distal end of the sheath using pull wire 22 and pull wire control as discussed above with reference to FIGS. 1 and 2. If catheter 30 is equipped with a pull wire, as discussed above with reference to FIG. 3, the distal tip of the catheter also may be bent and turned so as to aim it posteriorly. Because the sheath extends into the left atrium from the right atrium, the balloon tends to lodge against the left side of the mitral valve ring. The steering operations may also be used to promote disposition of the balloon towards the left side of the mitral valve ring.
    Guidewire 92 is positioned such that the guidewire extends through the mitral valve and into the left ventricle. The guidewire may extend further and curve back into the aorta through the aortic valve. The combined effects of the guidewire, the steerable sheath, and, if employed, the steerable catheter all tend to position balloon 50 generally in the location illustrated in FIG. 4, with the balloon extending through the mitral annulus MA of the mitral valve MV, with distal region 54 of the balloon disposed between the leaflets LV of the mitral valve.
    Balloon 50 is configured so that juncture 56 tends to engage the mitral annulus. This engagement is facilitated by transition 60 between distal portion 54 and proximal portion 52 of the balloon, and is further facilitated by maintaining a moderate pressure within the balloon, which permits balloon 50 to be indented to some degree by the mitral annulus. This physical engagement between the balloon and the mitral annulus helps to maintain the balloon in the desired operative position relative to the heart. Also, engagement of the balloon is reliably maintained by continued biasing of the balloon into engagement with the mitral annulus by the sheath and catheter, and by the guidewire. Thus, the balloon can be retained in the operative position shown while the heart continues to beat.
    With the balloon in the operative position, ultrasonic transducer 66 is aligned with the mitral annulus, but spaced therefrom. That is, radial lines directed outwardly from the outer surface of transducer 66, in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the tubular transducer, would intercept the mitral annulus.
    The desired position of the lumen and transducer is further illustrated in FIG. 5, where the heart is seen in an axial view from the top, with the atria and associated structures removed for ease of illustration. Note that balloon 50 is lodged against the mitral annulus, closer to the left side of the mitral annulus than to the right side, and closer to the posterior aspect of the mitral annulus than to the anterior aspect. Transducer 66 is held spaced apart from the mitral annulus, but is disposed closer to the posterior and left aspects of the mitral annulus than to the anterior and front aspects. For example, the radial distance RMIN from the surface of transducer 66 to the left posterior aspect of the mitral annulus may be on the order of 1 cm. The corresponding distances from the surface of transducer 66 to other locations around the mitral annulus are greater. For example, the distance RAV from the surface of transducer 66 to the aortic valve may be on the order of 2 cm or more.
    Preferably, balloon 50 does not completely occlude the mitral annulus, and thus does not completely occlude blood flow from the left atrium into the left ventricle. Moreover, the maximum diameter of the balloon is less than the maximum diameter of the mitral annulus, such that leaflets LV of the mitral valve provide reasonable sealing of the mitral valve against backflow from the left ventricle into the left atrium during systole. The leaflets may bear on the balloon and on one another during systole. The smooth surfaces of the balloon minimize damage to the leaflets. Because the heart remains functional while the balloon is in its operative position, the balloon may be retained in this operative condition for a sufficient length of time, for example, several minutes, to perform the procedure. The physician can verify proper placement of the balloon using fluoroscopic or other imaging techniques. To enhance such fluoroscopic techniques, the liquid circulated through the balloon may include a radiological non-ionic contrast agent. Alternatively, placement of the balloon can be visualized by transesophageal echocardiographic imaging, also known as TEE imaging, or other echocardiographic technique. When an echocardiographic technique is utilized, balloon 50 may be initially filled with a fluid containing an ultrasonic contrast medium to allow for easy visualization. The balloon is manipulated as necessary under visualization and thereby positioned in the heart. If an ultrasonic contrast medium is employed, it should be purged from within the first balloon and replaced by a liquid which does not attenuate or reflect ultrasound before actuation of the ultrasonic transducer.
    With the balloon and transducer in the operative position, ultrasonic excitation source 76 (FIG. 1) actuates transducer 66 to emit ultrasonic waves. Merely by way of example, the ultrasonic waves may have a frequency of about 1 MHz to a few tens of MHz, most typically about 9 MHz. The transducer typically is driven to emit, for example, about 10 watts to about 100 watts of acoustic power, most typically about 30 to about 40 watts. The actuation is continued for about 20 seconds to about a minute or more, most typically about 40 seconds to about 90 seconds. Optionally, the actuation may be repeated several times as, for example, about 5 times. The frequencies, power levels, and actuation times may be varied from those given above.
    The ultrasonic waves generated by the transducer propagate generally radially outwardly from the transducer, outwardly through the liquid within the balloon to the wall of the balloon and into the surrounding blood and tissue. The ultrasonic waves impinge on the tissues of the heart surrounding the balloon, and particularly on the mitral annulus. Propagation of the ultrasonic waves is essentially independent of contact between the balloon and the solid tissues of the heart, such as the mitral annulus. Because all of the tissues, the liquid within the balloon and the blood surrounding the balloon have approximately the same acoustic impedance, there is little or no reflection of ultrasonic waves at interfaces between the liquid within the balloon and the blood outside the balloon; at interfaces between the blood and the tissue; or at the interface between the saline within the balloon and the solid tissue in areas where the balloon does contact the mitral annulus.
    Essentially all of the mitral annulus lies within the “near field” region of the transducer. Within this region, the outwardly spreading cylindrical beam of ultrasonic waves tends to remain collimated and has an axial length (the dimension of the beam perpendicular to the plane of the drawing in FIG. 5) approximately equal to the axial length of the transducer. For a cylindrical transducer, the extent of the near field region is defined by the expression L2/λ, where L is the axial length of the transducer and λ is the wavelength of the ultrasonic waves. At distances from the transducer surface greater than L2/λ, the beam begins to spread axially to a substantial extent. However, for distances less than L2/λ, the beam does not spread axially to any substantial extent. Therefore, within the near field region, at distances less than L2/λ, the intensity of the ultrasonic waves decreases linearly, in proportion to distance from the transducer surface, as the beam spreads radially. Thus, the posterior and left regions of the mitral annulus receive substantially more intense ultrasonic waves than the anterior and right regions. This is advantageous, inasmuch as the posterior and left regions contain particularly high concentrations of collagen fibers. The ultrasonic energy directed into these regions is particularly effective in shrinking the mitral annulus. Moreover, the moderate levels of ultrasonic energy directed towards the front and right aspects of the mitral annulus are unlikely to damage sensitive structures such as the aortic valve disposed in proximity to the front and right aspects of the mitral annulus.
    The ultrasonic energy applied by the transducer is effective to heat and thus denature collagen fibers within the mitral annulus, thereby shrinking the annulus. It is believed that the shrinkage occurs principally in the left and posterior aspects of the mitral annulus. Because the transducer is spaced apart from the mitral annulus, the ultrasonic energy is applied over the entire mitral annulus simultaneously. There is no need for extreme precision in positioning of the balloon and transducer relative to the heart. Thus, the procedure is relatively simple and reliable. The mitral annulus tends to shrink to some extent immediately upon application of the ultrasonic energy; some additional shrinkage may occur during the weeks following treatment. Shrinkage of the mitral annulus tends to improve the sealing action of the leaflets and reduce or cure mitral valve insufficiency.
    Because the ultrasonic energy is dissipated and converted to heat principally inside the mitral annulus, rather than at its surface, the procedure does not damage the surface of the heart which is in contact with the blood, and hence does not provoke thrombus formation. Circulation of the cooled liquid through the balloon during the procedure helps to cool the transducer and essentially prevents direct heat transfer between the transducer and the epithelial lying at the surface of the mitral annulus where the lining contacts the balloon. Those regions of the epithelium which are not in contact with the balloon are cooled by blood flowing over them during the procedure with continued operation of the heart.
    Because the procedure can be performed rapidly, the balloons need not be maintained in position for a prolonged time. Additionally, because the procedure does not require intimate contact between the balloon and the mitral annulus or other heart structures, the procedure, including application of the ultrasonic energy, can be performed while the heart continues to beat. Further, balloon 50 is designed to minimize the amount of energy that may be misdirected away from the mitral annulus, to the mitral leaflets or other tissues not targeted by the therapy.
    After completion of the ultrasonic application procedure, the balloon is deflated, and the apparatus is withdrawn from the subject's body.
 Example 1
   Four dogs are treated using apparatus and techniques substantially as described above with reference to FIGS. 1-5. The dimensions of the mitral annulus are measured in vivo by imaging techniques pretreatment, immediately post-treatment and at one, two, three, and four weeks post-treatment. The results are as indicated in FIGS. 6 and 7, and demonstrate substantial shrinkage of the mitral annulus. The dogs did not evidence adverse effects from the procedure. Their circulation and cardiac rhythm remained intact after the procedure. Upon dissection, the heart did not exhibit scarring of the epithelial lining.
    Referring now to FIG. 8, apparatus according to a further embodiment of the invention is described, and incorporates balloon 150 and transducer 166 mounted on distal end 134 of a catheter. In this embodiment, however, balloon 150, in the inflated condition as depicted, has narrow section 100 surrounding transducer 166 and distal region 102 distal to the narrow section, the distal section being of slightly larger diameter than narrow section 100. The balloon also has proximal section 104 proximal to the narrow section. In this embodiment as well, the shape of the balloon facilitates engagement of the balloon with the mitral annulus and stable positioning of the apparatus during use.
    Referring now to FIGS. 9A, 9B and 10, a further alternative embodiment of the inventive apparatus is described, including catheter 170, which may be used with or without sheath 10 described above. Catheter 170 includes elongated shaft 171, which may be steerable as described above, having proximal end 172 and distal end 174. Balloon 175, which illustratively is a double-lobed balloon as depicted in FIG. 8, is disposed adjacent distal end 174, and surrounds ultrasonic transducer 176. Balloon 175 is coupled via inflation port 177 to circulation circuit 90 (FIG. 1) which inflates and circulates coolant through the balloon. As for preceding embodiments, balloon 175 is inserted in a deflated state and then inflated with an aqueous liquid, such as saline solution, which surrounds transducer 176 and conducts ultrasonic energy from transducer 176 to the mitral annulus. Ultrasonic transducer is similar in construction to that described with respect to the embodiment of FIG. 3, and emits ultrasonic energy in a substantially radial direction in the near field region, as described above.
    Catheter 170 further includes individually movable struts 180 and 182 that extend from proximal end 172 to distal end 174 through interior lumens (not shown) of the catheter body. Struts 180 and 182 exit the lumens via outlets 184 at proximal end 172, and may include compression rings, thumb screws or other suitable means to lock the struts at a selected position. The distal ends of struts 180 and 182 exit through skives 186 in the exterior wall of catheter 170 at a location proximal of balloon 175, pass around the outside of balloon 175, and are fastened to distal end 174 of catheter 170. Struts 180 and 182 preferably comprise a strong, resilient and flexible plastic material, or a metal or metal alloy wires, such as a superelastic nickel-titanium alloy, and may have a circular, oval or rectangular cross-section. While two struts 180 and 180 are depicted in FIG. 9, it is to be understood that a greater or lesser number of struts may be employed in catheter 170.
    Referring to FIG. 9B, struts 180 and 182 are slidably disposed in the lumens of catheter 170 and configured to be independently moved from a delivery state, in which the struts are collapsed against deflated balloon 175, to a deployed state, in which each of struts 180 and 182 is extended by advancing it in a distal direction through its respective outlet 184 and skive 186. In this manner, the distal region of each strut 180 and 182 selectively may be caused to bow outward in the deployed state (as indicated by arrows in FIG. 9B). By individually adjusting the extent to which the distal regions of struts 180 and 182 bow outward, the clinician can adjust the positioning of balloon 175, and thus transducer 176, relative to the surrounding tissue. As illustratively depicted in FIG. 9B, strut 182 may be extended to a much greater extent than strut 180, thereby causing balloon 175 and transducer 176 to be positioned closer to strut 180 than to strut 182.
    As further illustrated in FIG. 10, when catheter 170 is deployed in the mitral valve, struts 180 and 182 when expanded will extend to the commissures of the mitral valve leaflets. Struts 180 and 182 then may be individually adjusted to position balloon 175 and transducer 176 at the location preferred by the methods of the present invention, e.g., so that the left posterior aspect of the mitral annulus is in the near field region of transducer 176, as described for the embodiment of FIGS. 1-5. Because struts 180 and 182 preferably are formed from a strong, resilient and flexible material, they are capable of accommodating motion of the beating heart while retaining the balloon and transducer at a selected location for the duration of the treatment. Once the mitral annulus has been reduced a selected amount via deposition of ultrasonic energy, as determined, for example, using fluoroscopic imaging, balloon 175 may be deflated. Struts 180 and 182 then may be collapsed to the delivery state, and catheter 170 may be removed.
    In the embodiment of FIGS. 9 and 10, balloon 175 illustratively includes the dual-lobed shape depicted in FIG. 8, and when inflated the narrowed region of the balloon assists in longitudinally positioning the transducer relative to mitral annulus MA. In further alternative embodiments, balloon 175 may include a larger proximal region and narrower distal region, like balloon 50 of the embodiment of FIG. 1, or may include a balloon of uniform diameter along its length. Balloon 175 further may include a proximal-facing or distal-facing reflector element, as described for additional embodiments herein below. Preferably, however, balloon 175 does not fully occlude the mitral valve when deployed, and thus permits uninterrupted flow of blood through the left side of the heart during the procedure.
    Referring now to FIG. 11, apparatus according to yet another embodiment of the invention includes catheter 230 having balloon 250 and first transducer 266 similar to the corresponding features of the embodiments discussed above with reference to FIGS. 1-5. Catheter 230 further includes second transducer 202 mounted proximally to transducer 266. Second balloon 204 surrounds a portion of the proximal region of balloon 250 aligned with second transducer 202. A separate lumen (not shown) is provided in catheter 230 for inflation and deflation of second balloon 204.
    In operation, second balloon 204 is inflated with a gas such as carbon dioxide. Balloon 250 in its inflated condition is configured to have parabolic surface 206 in the regions surrounding transducer 202. As described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 6,635,054 and U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2004-0176757, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference, the interface between the liquid inside first balloon 250 and the gas inside second balloon 204 forms a reflector for ultrasound. The ultrasonic energy emitted from second transducer 202 is reflected at this interface and directed substantially into annular focal region 208, forward of transducer 202 and outside of balloon 250.
    As described in the patent and publication mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the forwardly directed ultrasound energy may be used to form a substantially ring-like lesion in cardiac tissue. For example, the balloon may be positioned so that focal region 208 lies within the cardiac tissue surrounding a pulmonary vein, and transducer 202 may be actuated to direct ultrasonic energy into this focal region, thereby ablating the cardiac tissue around the pulmonary vein, e.g., to treat atrial fibrillation. First transducer 266 can be used in the manner discussed above to treat mitral insufficiency. The ultrasonic energy from first transducer 266 propagates radially outwardly in the manner described above, and does not encounter the reflective interface formed by the gas in second balloon 204.
    Catheter 230, which may be configured to be steerable similarly to sheath 10, may be used alone or in conjunction with a steerable sheath, like sheath 10 described above, to reposition the apparatus from the position required for treatment of atrial fibrillation to the position required for treatment of mitral insufficiency, or the reverse. The capability of treating both atrial fibrillation and mitral insufficiency with a single catheter-based device provides a significant advantage, inasmuch as a significant proportion of patients who suffer from atrial fibrillation also suffer from mitral insufficiency, and vice-versa. Gas-filled second balloon 204 can be readily visualized in echocardiographic techniques, as it is highly reflective to ultrasound.
    In a variant of this embodiment, first and second transducers 202 and 266 may be replaced by a single transducer which can be moved by the operator between the positions indicated for transducers 202 and 266. In a further variant, the emitter structure may include only a single transducer at the location indicated for second transducer 202. In this variant, the emitter structure is arranged to emit ultrasound only in the forward or distal direction, into ring-like focal region 208. For treatment of mitral valve insufficiency, the balloon may be positioned in the atrium, with the distal end of the balloon extending through the mitral annulus so that focal region 208 is aligned with the mitral annulus.
    In a further variant, the balloon may be reversed, so that second balloon 204 is positioned within the ventricle, between the leaflets of the mitral valve. In this arrangement, the ultrasonic energy is emitted in the retrograde direction, toward the atrium. In this configuration, gas-filled second balloon 204 blocks transmission of ultrasonic energy to the leaflets, and thus prevents damage to the leaflets. Thus, the possibility of misdirecting energy into the mitral leaflets and the left ventricle is largely eliminated.
    Numerous other variations and combinations of the features discussed above can be utilized without departing from the present invention as defined by the claims. For example, expansible structures other than those described above may be used. For example, an expandable basket-like structure can be used in place of the balloon. In still other embodiments, the emitter structure can include reflective or blocking structures for selectively directing ultrasonic waves from the transducer over only a limited range of radial directions. For example, the apparatus of FIG. 12 includes reflective balloon 302 which may be filled with a gas, for selectively directing the ultrasonic waves from transducer 366 over only a limited range of radial directions. Here again, the ultrasound passes through balloon 350 to impinge on the surrounding mitral annulus.
    In still other arrangements, the ultrasonic transducer itself may have a directional emission pattern. Another embodiment is to utilize a transducer designed to be activated by different frequencies at designed sectors of its circumference. By varying the wall thickness of the transducer, it will resonate at different frequencies thus allowing for the electronic control of emitted energy to create an optimal energy pattern that is asymmetric.
    Alternatively, asymmetric energy delivery can be achieved using segmented transducers (example: individual arc-lengths less than 360 degrees when combined form a 360 degree tubular transducer). In still other embodiments, focusing devices, such as lenses and diffractive elements can be employed. An annular lens surrounding a cylindrical transducer as shown, for example in U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2002-0068885, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein, may be used to narrow the axial extent of the emitted ultrasonic waves.
    The route by which the apparatus is introduced into the heart can be varied from that discussed above. However, the atrial approach offers a safety advantage over a retrograde approach through the aortic valve because the risk of entangling the catheter with the chordae tendinae is much higher in a retrograde approach to the mitral valve through the ventricle. Also, it is not essential to use a catheter to place the expansible device. The emitter structure, including the transducer and the balloon or other expansible device as described above can be mounted on a short and relatively inflexible handle, so that the emitter structure can be placed by a minimally invasive surgical technique.
    The state of the mitral annulus can be monitored by ultrasound imaging during the treatment. During treatment, the collagenous tissue changes its physical properties, and thus its ultrasound reflectivity when heated. These changes in tissue ultrasound reflectivity can be observe using ultrasonic imaging to monitor the formation of the desired lesion in the mitral valve. Doppler ultrasound can be used to monitor the blood flow during the procedure. Ultrasonic transducers for these purposes can be carried on the same catheter which carries the emitter unit, or on separate catheters or probes. Other imaging modalities which can detect heating can also be used to monitor the treatment. For example, magnetic resonance imaging can detect changes in temperature.
    In a further variant, ultrasonic range detection can be used to monitor the size of the mitral annulus during treatment. For example, pinging devices can be mounted adjacent to transducer 66 (FIG. 3). One configuration is to use two-pair devices at diametrically opposite locations, on opposite sides of the central axis of the balloon. The purpose of the pinging devices is to monitor the acute progress (mitral annulus shrinkage) during the course of ablation. The ultrasound pinging devices measure relative distance to the surrounding tissue. By comparing the relative distance between the opposite walls (e.g., anterior-posterior) measured by pinging devices, the operator can monitor the resultant mitral annulus shrinkage to a preplanned size.
    In yet another variant, the application of the ultrasonic energy can be gated to the cardiac cycle. The cardiac cycle can be monitored by conventional EKG techniques, by ultrasonic blood flow measurement, or by other techniques. Excitation unit 76 may be arranged, for example, to deliver the ultrasonic waves only at a preselected point in each cardiac cycle.
    The apparatus and methods discussed above are particularly useful in treating mitral valve insufficiency, but also may be used to treat other valves in the circulatory system as, for example, the tricuspid valve of the heart.
    Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular embodiments, it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles and applications of the present invention. It is therefore to be understood that numerous modifications may be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

1. A method of treating a cardiac valve of a mammalian subject comprising the steps of:
(a) positioning an emitter unit incorporating an ultrasonic transducer in proximity with the valve without completely occluding the annulus of the valve so that the ultrasonic transducer is spaced apart from the annulus; and (b) actuating the ultrasonic transducer to apply ultrasonic energy to the annulus so as to cause shrinkage of the annulus. 

  
 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a human patient, the valve is the mitral valve and shrinkage is caused by remodeling collagen within the annulus.

  
 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the positioning and actuating steps are performed while the heart is beating.

  
 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of positioning the emitter unit is performed so that the ultrasonic transducer is disposed closer to the posterior aspect of the annulus than to the anterior aspect of the annulus.

  
 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of actuating the transducer is performed so as to apply ultrasonic energy to the annulus over at least about 25% of the circumference of the annulus in a single actuation of the transducer.

  
 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of actuating the transducer is performed so as to apply ultrasonic energy preferentially to the posterior aspect of the annulus.

  
 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of positioning the emitter unit includes positioning a proximal portion of a structure encompassing the transducer within the annulus and positioning a distal portion of the structure between the leaflets of the valve.

  
 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the distal portion of the structure has smaller cross-sectional area than the proximal portion of the structure.

  
 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the structure is an expansible structure, the method further comprising the step of expanding the structure, before completion of the positioning step, to an operative condition in which at least a portion of the structure is spaced apart from the ultrasonic transducer.

  
 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the expansible structure includes a balloon, the step of expanding the structure including the step of inflating the balloon with an aqueous liquid.

  
 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the expansible structure comprises at least one adjustable strut configured to position the ultrasonic transducer within the annulus of the valve.

  
 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the positioning step includes advancing an elongated catheter having the emitter unit mounted thereon into a chamber of the heart and advancing a section of the catheter having the emitter unit mounted thereon so as to position the expansible structure within the annulus of the valve.

  
 13. Apparatus for treating a cardiac valve of a mammalian subject comprising:
(a) an elongated catheter having proximal and distal regions; (b) an emitter unit including an ultrasonic transducer and an expansible structure carried on the distal region of the catheter, the ultrasonic transducer configured to emit ultrasonic energy that causes shrinkage of the annulus of the valve, the expansible structure being constructed and arranged to hold the transducer spaced apart from an annulus of the valve when the expansible structure is in an operative condition and the emitter unit is disposed in proximity to the valve, the expansible structure being constructed and arranged so that the expansible unit will not completely occlude the annulus of the valve. 

  
 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the catheter is configured to position the emitter unit adjacent to a posterior aspect of the annulus.

  
 15. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a delivery sheath having proximal and distal ends and a sheath steering structure carried on the sheath and operative to selectively bend a bend region of the sheath, the catheter and emitter unit being constructed and arranged so that the distal region of the catheter and the emitter unit can be advanced into a chamber of the heart through the sheath.

  
 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the delivery sheath is constructed and arranged to transmit a torque applied at the proximal end of the sheath to the bend region of the sheath.

  
 17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the catheter includes a catheter steering mechanism carried on the catheter and operative to selectively bend a bend region of the catheter proximal to the emitter unit.

  
 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the catheter is constructed and arranged to transmit a torque applied at the proximal end of the catheter to the bend region of the catheter.

  
 19. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the expansible structure includes an expansible element surrounding the ultrasonic transducer, the apparatus further including a transducer support arranged to hold the transducer substantially spaced apart from the expansible element when the expansible structure is in an expanded condition.

  
 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the expansible element includes a first balloon.

  
 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the first balloon has a major diameter less than a major diameter of the annulus of the valve.

  
 22. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the first balloon has a major diameter of about 30 mm or less and the catheter is constructed and arranged to place the emitter unit in proximity to the mitral valve.

  
 23. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the first balloon includes a proximal portion surrounding the ultrasonic transducer and a distal portion extending distal to the proximal portion.

  
 24. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the distal portion of the first balloon has smaller cross-sectional area than the proximal portion of the first balloon when the first balloon is in an inflated condition.

  
 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the distal portion of the expansible structure tapers in the distal direction.

  
 26. Apparatus as claimed in claim 25 wherein there is an abrupt decrease in diameter at a juncture between the proximal and distal portions of the first balloon that facilitates aligning the ultrasonic transducer with the annulus of the valve, the ultrasonic transducer being disposed at an axial location at or proximal to the axial location of the juncture.

  
 27. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the expansible element further comprises a second balloon contiguous with the first balloon, the second balloon configured to reflect ultrasonic energy emanating from the ultrasonic transducer.

  
 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein at least some of the energy reflected from the second balloon is directed into the annulus of the valve.

  
 29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the second balloon blocks at least partially blocks transmission of ultrasonic energy from the transducer to leaflets of the valve.

  
 30. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the expansible element includes at least one adjustable strut configured to position the ultrasonic transducer within the annulus of the valve.