Source: [US20080255451A1](https://patents.google.com/patent/US20080255451A1)

# [US20080255451A1](US20080255451A1.md) - Low power ultrasound system

## Details

* Date: 2007-04-10
* Inventor: CR Bard Inc
* Beneficiary: Ben Cohen, Dylan K. Robles, Shayne Messerly

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * US3914748A
 * [US3918024](US3918024.md)A
 * US4152678A
 * [US4159462](US4159462.md)A
 * US4334432A
 * [US4413629](US4413629.md)A
 * US4542653A
 * [US5005419A](US5005419A.md)
 * US5108759A
 * US5259386A
 * US5263483A
 * US5265613A
 * US5268877A
 * [US5295485](US5295485.md)A
 * US5295958A
 * US5345426A
 * US5369624A
 * US5484416A
 * US5522391A
 * US5544128A
 * [US5590658A](US5590658A.md)
 * US5622177A
 * US5640960A
 * US5685307A
 * US5722412A
 * US5782769A
 * US5817024A
 * US5865733A
 * US5893363A
 * US5964709A
 * US5997479A
 * US6102863A
 * US6117085A
 * US6126608A
 * US6135958A
 * US6135961A
 * [US6139496A](US6139496A.md)
 * US6142946A
 * US6203498B1
 * US6213951B1
 * US6248073B1
 * US6251073B1
 * US6344024B1
 * US6375617B1
 * US6379305B1
 * US6383139B1
 * US6416475B1
 * US6440072B1
 * US6471651B1
 * US6475146B1
 * US20030097071A1
 * US20030139664A1
 * [US6605043B1](US6605043B1.md)
 * US20040002656A1
 * US20040002652A1
 * [US20040015079A1](US20040015079A1.md)
 * US6806623B2
 * US20050057304A1
 * US6869401B2
 * US20050068221A1
 * US20050148878A1
 * US20050148873A1
 * US20050203392A1
 * US20070161904A1
 * US20070239019A1
 * US20080114247A1
 * US20080114252A1
 * US20080114239A1
 * US20080114241A1
 * US20080114248A1
 * US20080114246A1
 * US20080114249A1
 * US20080114253A1
 * US20080114245A1
 * US20080119737A1
 * US20080188750A1
 * US20090018443A1
 * US20100286527A1
 * US7874991B2
### Forward
 * US20080110266A1
 * US20080110261A1
 * US20100160786A1
 * US20120143233A1
 * US20120245466A1
 * US20140031694A1
 * US20140358005A1
 * US20150238168A1
 * US20160015368A1
 * US9649091B2
 * US9901324B2
## Abstract

Abstract

A low power ultrasound system for use in sonography applications, including vascular imaging, is disclosed. In one embodiment, the low power ultrasound system comprises a base unit that includes an image processor and a display. An ultrasound probe is operably connected to the base unit. The probe includes a head portion including an array of crystal transducers. A plurality of pulser/receiver modules that cause the transducers to emit ultrasonic transmit pulses are also included in the probe. The pulser/receiver modules are further configured to receive analog signals relating to ultrasonic echo receive pulses detected by the transducers. The probe includes a singular low noise amplifier that amplifies the analog signals, and an analog-to-digital converter that converts the analog signals to a digital signal. A wireless interface is included for enabling the digital signal to be wirelessly transmitted from the probe to the image processor of the base unit.



A low power ultrasound system for use in sonography applications, including vascular imaging, is disclosed. In one embodiment, the low power ultrasound system comprises a base unit that includes an image processor and a display. An ultrasound probe is operably connected to the base unit. The probe includes a head portion including an array of crystal transducers. A plurality of pulser/receiver modules that cause the transducers to emit ultrasonic transmit pulses are also included in the probe. The pulser/receiver modules are further configured to receive analog signals relating to ultrasonic echo receive pulses detected by the transducers. The probe includes a singular low noise amplifier that amplifies the analog signals, and an analog-to-digital converter that converts the analog signals to a digital signal. A wireless interface is included for enabling the digital signal to be wirelessly transmitted from the probe to the image processor of the base unit.

CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
 [0001]  This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60/922,695, filed Apr. 10, 2007, and entitled “Low Power, Low Cost Wireless Ultrasound Machine,” which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

BRIEF SUMMARY
 [0002]  Briefly summarized, embodiments of the present invention are directed to a low power ultrasound system for use in sonography applications, including vascular imaging. The system to be described requires relatively low power levels in order to function, thereby enabling the system to take advantage of wireless technologies to un-tether the ultrasound probe from the base unit of the system. This, in turn, provides more flexibility for a clinician or other user of the system and simplifies the ultrasonic procedure. Embodiments of the present invention enable the ultrasound device to operate with low power requirements, thereby facilitating wireless connectivity between the probe and base unit and acceptable operating times for the probe between recharging.
  [0003]  In one embodiment, the low power ultrasound system comprises a base unit that includes an image processor and a display. An ultrasound probe is operably connected to the base unit. The probe includes a head portion including an array of crystal transducers. A plurality of pulser/receiver modules, which cause the transducers to emit ultrasonic transmit pulses, are also included in the probe. The transmit pulses are reflected by the object being imaged, causing ultrasonic echo receive pulses that are received by the transducers and forwarded to the corresponding pulser/receiver modules as electrical analog signals. The probe includes a multiplexer that combines the analog signals, a singular low noise amplifier that amplifies the multiplexed analog signals, and an analog-to-digital converter that converts the multiplexed analog signals to a digital signal.
  [0004]  In one embodiment, a wireless interface is included in the ultrasound probe for enabling the digital signal to be wirelessly transmitted from the probe to the image processor of the base unit, which also includes a compatible wireless interface. A processor in the base unit processes the data produces an ultrasonic image. Such wireless connectivity is enabled by the low power configuration of the probe components as described above.
  [0005]  One or more of a variety of wireless protocols may be employed to facilitate communication between the probe and base unit, including a wireless universal serial bus (“USB”) protocol. In another embodiment, the probe can be physically cabled to the base unit using a USB interface, for example. The base unit can be a dedicated ultrasound device, a desktop or laptop computer, etc. These and other features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims, or may be learned by the practice of embodiments of the invention as set forth hereinafter.


BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0006]  To further clarify the above and other advantages and features of the present invention, a more particular description of the invention will be rendered by reference to specific embodiments thereof that are illustrated in the appended drawings. It is appreciated that these drawings depict only typical embodiments of the invention and are therefore not to be considered limiting of its scope. The invention will be described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the use of the accompanying drawings in which:
  [0007]   FIG. 1A is a simplified diagram of a low power ultrasound system configured in accordance with one example embodiment of the present invention;
  [0008]   FIG. 1B is a simplified view of a portion of FIG. 1A in accordance with an alternative example embodiment;
  [0009]   FIG. 2 is a top view of a wireless probe that can be employed in connection with the low power ultrasound system shown in FIG. 1A;
  [0010]   FIG. 3 is a simplified block diagram of internal components of the ultrasound probe shown in FIG. 2;
  [0011]   FIG. 4A is a top simplified view of one possible implementation of the components of the ultrasound probe shown in FIG. 3 according to one embodiment;
  [0012]   FIG. 4B is a simplified side view of the components of the ultrasound probe shown in FIG. 4A;
  [0013]   FIG. 5A is a simplified view of a transducer array in a head portion of the ultrasound probe shown in FIGS. 1A and 1B, showing one stage of operation of the transducer array according to one example embodiment;
  [0014]   FIG. 5B is a simplified view of the transducer array of FIG. 5A, showing a subsequent stage of operation of the transducer array;
  [0015]   FIG. 6A is a simplified view of the transducer array of FIG. 5A, showing one stage of operation of the transducer array according to another example embodiment; and
  [0016]   FIG. 6B is a simplified view of the transducer array of FIG. 5A, showing a subsequent stage of operation of the transducer array.
 
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED EMBODIMENTS
 [0017]  Reference will now be made to figures wherein like structures will be provided with like reference designations. It is understood that the drawings are diagrammatic and schematic representations of exemplary embodiments of the invention, and are not limiting of the present invention nor are they necessarily drawn to scale.
  [0018]   FIGS. 1-6B depict various features of embodiments of the present invention, which embodiments are generally directed to a system for performing ultrasound imaging on the body of a patient or other subject. Advantageously, the system to be described requires relatively low power levels in order to function, thereby enabling the system to take advantage of wireless technologies to un-tether the ultrasound probe from the base unit of the system. This, in turn, provides more flexibility for a clinician or other user of the system and simplifies the ultrasonic procedure.
  [0019]  Reference is first made to FIG. 1A, which shows a low power ultrasound system, generally designated at 10, configured in accordance with one example embodiment of the present invention. As shown, the low power ultrasound system (“system”) 10 generally includes a base unit 12 and probe 14. The base unit 12 as pictured here includes a processor 16 for performing image processing functions on sonographic data retrieved by the probe 14 during an ultrasonic procedure. FIG. 1A shows the probe 14 placed adjacent a surface 22 of a body 20 of a patient or other subject. Though understood to be used in applications such as that shown here in FIG. 1A, it is also appreciated that embodiments of the present invention may be modified for use with probes having other shapes and configurations, including probes configured for penetration into an orifice of the patient, for instance.
  [0020]  The base unit 12 further includes a display 18. Image data processed by the processor 16 of the base unit 12 are represented as an image on the display 18. The image is continually refreshed during operation of the system 10. Note that, for clarity, only selected features of the base unit 12, probe 14, and the system 10 are described herein in detail. Indeed, it is appreciated that the system 10 and its individual components can include additional features and components, though not disclosed herein, while still preserving the principles of the present invention. Note also that the base unit 12 can be one of any number devices, including a dedicated ultrasound device, a desktop or laptop computer, etc.
  [0021]  In the presently depicted embodiment, the system 10 implements wireless technology, wherein the base unit 12 and the probe 14 are in two-way, wireless communication with one another. To that end, the base unit 12 includes a base antenna 24 that wireless communicates with a probe antenna 26 included with the probe 14. Wireless signals 28, representing electromagnetic communication such as RF signals between the base unit 12 and the probe 14, are also shown. In this way, sonographic data detected by the probe 14 can be wirelessly transmitted by the probe antenna 26 to the base unit 12 via the base antenna 24 for processing by the processor 16. Note that one or more of a variety of wireless data transfer protocols, including Wireless USB, IEEE 802.x, Bluetooth®, WiMax, etc., may be employed for such data transfer as described herein.
  [0022]   FIG. 1B represents another possible embodiment, wherein the base unit 12 of the low power ultrasound system 10 is communicatively coupled with the probe 14 not wirelessly, but via a cable 30. As such, it is appreciated that the low power ultrasound system as described herein may be employed with a wireless, non-wireless, or even hybrid wireless/cabled communication link between the base unit and the probe.
  [0023]  Reference is now made to FIG. 2, which depicts various details regarding the probe 14 of the system 10 shown in FIG. 1A. As depicted, the probe 14 according to the present embodiment is a wireless probe and includes a probe housing that acts as a covering for various internal components of the probe. A head 42 is included in the probe 14 and houses the array of crystals that act as transducers to enable insonation of an object within the body of the patient to be imaged during ultrasound procedures. A location 44 is specified, depicting one possible location for inclusion of an internal probe antenna enabling wireless communication with the base unit 12 as generally depicted in FIG. 1A.
  [0024]  A location 46 is also designated for the inclusion of various buttons (not shown) that enable clinician control of the probe 14 and the base unit 12 during ultrasound procedures. Thus, it is appreciated that the probe 14 as shown in FIG. 2 can be desirably included within the sterile field of a patient undergoing an ultrasound procedure in preparation for receiving an intravenous catheter, such as a PICC line, for instance. Note that the particular design of the probe 14 as shown in FIG. 2, together with the specified location for the various components thereof—both internal and external—can be varied such that the size, look, and configuration of the probe may be modified from what is explicitly shown here.
  [0025]  Reference is now made to FIG. 3 in describing various internal components included in the probe 14 of the system 10, according to one embodiment. In doing so, it should be appreciated that the layout and configuration of the components in FIG. 3, shown in simplified form, enable the system 10 to operate in a low power configuration. The low power requirements of the components of the probe 14 shown in FIG. 3 enable various advantages to be realized, including the ability for the probe to operate wirelessly with respect to the base unit 12 while still having a suitable operating time between recharging. Note that, though shown here as singular, the components to be described in connection with FIG. 3 can be configured as a single device or multiple devices, as may be appreciated by one skilled in the art.
  [0026]  In greater detail, FIG. 3 shows that the probe 14 internally includes a crystal array 50, each crystal of the array functioning as a piezoelectric transducer. The crystal array 50 here includes 64 crystals and is located in the head 42 (FIG. 2) of the Probe 14 and is linearly arranged in the present embodiment. In other embodiments, both the number and arrangement of the crystals can vary.
  [0027]  One or more pulser/receiver modules 52 are operably connected to the crystal array 50 and are configured to drive one or more active crystals in the crystal array 50 during operation of the system 10 so as to cause the respective crystal to produce a transmit pulse of ultrasonic waves, well known in the art. The pulser/receiver modules 52 are also configured to receive electrical pulses representing received echo pulses detected by the active crystals of the crystal array 50, wherein the echo pulses are produced as a result of reflection of the transmit pulses by an object to be imaged within the patient body, such as a vein or artery.
  [0028]  A signal line 66 is shown interposed between various of the components depicted in FIG. 3, including the crystal array 50, the pulser/receiver modules 52, etc. Note that the signal line 66 is representative of one or more signal paths on which signals associated with ultrasonic echo receive pulses are carried between the internal probe components described herein. As such, the signal line 66 may take one or more of several forms between the various internal probe components, as known by one skilled in the art.
  [0029]  An analog multiplexer 54 is operably connected to the pulser/receiver modules 52 and is configured to multiplex multiple electrical pulses representing the received echo pulses forwarded by the pulser/receiver modules. The multiplexer 54 in the present embodiment is a composite configuration of eight “1-of-8” multiplexers, each of which is operably connected to a corresponding plurality of eight pulser/receiver modules 52 (see FIGS. 4A, 4B). The composite multiplexer 54 is operably connected to a field-programmable gate array (or “FPGA,” described below at 60) having 3 binary-decoded select lines and 8 enable lines to the eight multiplexers to enable the signals from one multiplexer at a time to be forwarded along the signal line 66. Of course, other multiplexer configurations, including a different number of individual multiplexers included in the composite multiplexer, can be employed.
  [0030]  A single low-noise amplifier (“LNA”) 56 is operably connected to the multiplexer 54 and is configured to amplify the multiplexed signal received from the multiplexer. Note that the LNA 56 receives a single-ended analog signal from the multiplexer 54 and, in addition to amplifying it, produces for output a differential analog signal. This differential analog signal is forwarded to a single analog-to-digital converter (“ADC”) 58, which converts it to a digital signal. The ADC 58 is a 16-bit ADC in one embodiment, such as part number LTC2203CUK or LTC2203IUK, sold by Linear Technology, 1630 McCarthy Blvd., Milpitas, Calif., 95035-7417.
  [0031]  Note that only a single LNA and a single ADC are used in the present embodiment in contrast to other systems, where multiple amplifiers and ADCs are used to simultaneously process converted echo pulses simultaneously received by the crystal array. In contrast, the components of the present probe 14 are configured such that only a single signal is amplified by a single amplifier, i.e., the LNA 56, and converted by a single ADC, i.e., the ADC 58, then forwarded for more processing. In this way, the probe 14 has a reduced size, reduced complexity, and lower power consumption when compared to other, known ultrasound systems.
  [0032]  The digital signal produced by the ADC 58, ultimately representing the echo pulses received by the crystal array 50, is then forwarded by the ADC 58 to a field programmable gate array (“FPGA”) 60 and a central processing unit (“CPU”) 62 before the signal is transmitted to the base unit 12 via a wireless node 64. In one embodiment the CPU 62 is NXP part number LPC2888FET180-S, sold by Royal Philips Electronics, and is employed to govern the FPGA 60 and communication interfaces, such as a wireless node 64 to be described below.
  [0033]  Though specified here as a USB-type wireless node, other node types may be alternatively or additionally employed, as already discussed. For instance, the wireless node 64 could include both Wireless USB and Bluethooth® protocols for the wireless transfer of signals from the probe 14 to the base unit 12. Also, and as already mentioned, the wireless nodes can be omitted in one embodiment in favor of a cabled interface between the base unit and the probe. Indeed, in one embodiment, the base unit and probe can be connected via a USB cable. In such a case, the power requirements of the internal components of the probe could be met by the power supply provided by one or more USB outlets of the base unit, if desired, or by a combination of battery and USB-provided power.
  [0034]  As already mentioned, the base unit 12 in the embodiment shown in FIG. 1A, is configured for wireless communication with the wireless probe 14. As such, the base unit 12 wirelessly receives the digital signal that is produced and forwarded via the wireless node 64 as described immediately above. The processor 16 then processes the digital signal according to standard image processing procedures and produces an image that is sent to the display 18 for viewing.
  [0035]   FIG. 3 shows that the probe 14 includes other internal components related to its operation. A plurality of pulser buffers 68 are included and operably connected to the pulser/receiver modules 52 via one or more communication lines 70. The pulser buffers 68 are governed by the FPGA 60 via a communication line 72, which includes in one embodiment 64 signal lines and one enable/disable line, according to the inclusion of 64 transducers in the crystal array 50. So configured, the FPGA 60 assists in activating the proper number of pulser/receiver modules 52 during operation of the device 10.
  [0036]  In addition to the communication line to the pulser buffers 68, communication lines 72 extend from the FPGA 60 to the ADC 58 and the multiplexer 54 to enable the FPGA 60 to govern their operation as well.
  [0037]  A power supply 80 is included in the probe 14 to power the components already described above in connection with FIG. 3. In one embodiment, the power supply 80 is a rechargeable lithium-ion-type battery, though other battery types or alternative power supplies may also be used. A supply status line extends between the power supply 80 and the CPU 62 so as to enable the CPU to monitor battery voltage and to enable the CPU to detect any power supply malfunctions. In other embodiments, one or more smart batteries may alternatively be used.
  [0038]  Various of the components shown in FIG. 3 list voltage values at their corresponding nodes. Note that these voltage values can vary according to the particular configuration of the device(s). It is therefore appreciated that these voltage values are exemplary only, and should not be construed as limiting the present invention in any way.
  [0039]  Reference is now made to FIGS. 4A and 4B, which depict one possible configuration for arrangement of the various internal components of the probe 14. In particular, these figures show the linear crystal array 50 connected to a top printed circuit board (“PCB”) 90 via a flex circuit 92. The plurality of pulser/receiver modules 52 are arranged on top and bottom surfaces of the top PCB 90A and a bottom PCB 90C as well, totaling 64 pulser/receiver modules in the present embodiment, though this number can change according to the particular application. Two pulser buffers 68 are arranged on the top and bottom surfaces of the top PCB 90A and the bottom PCB 90C. Similarly, two multiplexers 54 are arranged on the top and bottom surfaces of the top PCB 90A and the bottom PCB 90C. Connectors 94A are included to interconnect the top and bottom PCBs 90A and 90C to each other and to the flex circuit 92. Connectors 94B are included to interconnect the top and bottom PCBs 90A and 90C with a middle PCB 90B.
  [0040]  The middle PCB 90B includes LNA 56, the FPGA 60, and the CPU 62, together with other probe components, which have been removed for the sake of clarity. The three PCBs 90A-90C are arranged in a stacked “clamshell” design, best seen in FIG. 4B, thereby providing an efficient use of space so as to minimize the size of the probe 14. In one embodiment, for example, the size of the probe 14 is approximately 1.5 inches wide, 3.5 inches long, and 0.5 inch high.
  [0041]  Reference is now made to FIGS. 5A-6B, which depict various operational aspects of the probe 14 during operation of the system 10 to ultrasonically image an object 102, such as a vein, artery, or other feature in the body of a patient. A portion 100 is shown of the crystal array 50 (FIGS. 4A, 4B), including individually numbered crystal transducers 1-34. As mentioned, in the present embodiment, the crystal array of which the portion 100 is a part, includes 64 crystal transducers linearly arranged in the manner shown in FIG. 5A, though both the number and arrangement of the crystal transducers can vary from what is shown here.
  [0042]  Because the system 10 and probe 14 operate with low power, sonographic scanning techniques are described herein in connection with FIGS. 5A-6B so as to enable ultrasonic imaging while preserving the low power status of the system. FIGS. 5A and 5B depict one such technique. FIGS. 6A and 6B describe another technique. It is appreciated that either of these techniques, or some other technique that is different than, or an amalgam of, the techniques described herein, may be used to produce ultrasonic images using the system 10.
  [0043]  In FIG. 5A, a plurality of ultrasonic transmit pulses 104 are emitted from 32 contiguous transducers, for example, of the crystal array portion 100 toward the object 102 to be imaged. Note that the number of transducers used in any imaging procedure may be more or less than 32 can vary according to many factors, including the size and position of the object to be imaged, etc. In one scanning procedure 10 transducers may be used, in another all the transducers in the array (e.g., 64 in the current embodiments) may be used. Transducer 1 of the array alone is then activated so as to be able to receive and detect an ultrasonic echo receive pulse 106 produced by partial reflection by the object 102 of one or more of the transmit pulses 104. The receive pulse 106 is transmitted through the system in the manner described in connection with FIG. 3.
  [0044]   FIG. 5B shows a subsequent stage of the technique, where a new round of ultrasonic transmit pulses 104 are sent a point in time after, e.g., in rapid succession to, the transmit pulses shown in FIG. 5A. Then, transducer 2 of the array alone is then activated so as to be able to receive and detect a subsequent ultrasonic echo receive pulse 106 produced by partial reflection by the object 102 of one or more of the transmit pulses 104. This subsequent receive pulse 106 is transmitted through the system in the manner described in connection with FIG. 3.
  [0045]  The above process is repeated while advancing the lone active receiving transducer by one through the series of transmitting transducers in order to shape and focus the resulting image of the insonated object 102. In the illustrated embodiment, this signifies cycling the receiving transducer function through all of the transmitting transducers, though this number can be varied if desired or needed for a particular application. In other embodiments, the number of active transducers used to send transmit pulses, the number of transducers receiving an echo pulse at one time, the pattern of activation of the receiving transducers, etc., can be varied.
  [0046]   FIGS. 6A and 6B show another possible ultrasonic scanning technique. In this technique, a single crystal transducer, e.g., crystal 1 alone in the illustrated example, is activated to emit an ultrasonic transmit pulse toward the object 102 to be imaged. Crystal 1 is kept active to receive the echo receive pulse 106 reflected by the object 102. The detected signal is forwarded through the probe 14 to the base unit 12 as has been described in connection with FIG. 3.
  [0047]  The above process is repeated with crystal 2 as the lone active crystal as shown in FIG. 6B, then crystal 3, etc., until each transducer in the selected portion 100 has been utilized. The resulting signals as received by the base unit are processed by the processor 16 to form a shaped and focused ultrasound image of the insonated object 102. As mentioned before, variations of the techniques described in FIGS. 5A-6B can be employed while still falling within the claims of the present invention.
  [0048]  The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative, not restrictive. The scope of the invention is, therefore, indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

1. A low power ultrasound imaging device, comprising:
a base unit including an image processor and a display; an ultrasound probe operably connected to the base unit, the probe including:
a head portion including a crystal transducer array;
a plurality of pulser/receiver modules that cause the transducer array to emit at least one ultrasonic transmit pulse, the pulser/receiver modules configured to receive analog signals relating to at least one ultrasonic echo receive pulse detected by the transducer array;
a singular low noise amplifier that amplifies the analog signals;
a singular analog-to-digital converter that converts the analog signals to a digital signal;
a field-programmable gate array that controls the pulser/receiver modules and the analog-to-digital converter; and
an interface for enabling the digital signal to be transferred from the probe to the image processor of the base unit.
 

  
 2. The low power ultrasound imaging device as defined in claim 1, wherein the ultrasound probe further comprises a multiplexer that combines the analog signals before the analog signals are amplified by the low noise amplifier.

  
 3. The low power ultrasound imaging device as defined in claim 1, wherein the ultrasound probe includes a battery for providing power to components of the ultrasound probe.

  
 4. The low power ultrasound imaging device as defined in claim 3, wherein the interface is a wireless interface, and wherein the base unit includes a wireless interface.

  
 5. The low power ultrasound imaging device as defined in claim 4, wherein the wireless interface of the ultrasound probe and the base unit communicate via a wireless USB protocol.

  
 6. The low power ultrasound imaging device as defined in claim 1, wherein the interface includes a cable interface between the ultrasound probe and the base unit.

  
 7. The low power ultrasound imaging device as defined in claim 1, wherein the low noise amplifier produces a differential output of amplified analog signals.

  
 8. The low power ultrasound imaging device as defined in claim 1, wherein the ultrasound probe further comprises a central processing unit that controls the field-programmable gate array and the interface of the ultrasound probe.

  
 9. The low power ultrasound imaging device as defined in claim 1, wherein the base unit is a laptop computer.

  
 10. A method for insonating an object to be imaged via ultrasound, the method comprising:
by a plurality of transducers in a transducer array, simultaneously transmitting a plurality of ultrasonic transmit pulses; by at least one transducer of the plurality of transducers, detecting an ultrasonic echo receive pulse, the ultrasonic echo receive pulse being changed by the at least one transducer into an electrical analog signal; multiplexing the electrical analog signal with additional electrical analog signals into a multiplexed analog signal; by a singular amplifier, amplifying the multiplexed analog signal; and by a singular analog-to-digital converter, converting the multiplexed analog signal into a digital signal. 

  
 11. The method for insonating as defined in claim 10, further comprising:
processing the digital signal to produce an ultrasonic image. 

  
 12. The method for insonating as defined in claim 11, wherein the transducer array is a linear array disposed in a head portion of an ultrasound probe.

  
 13. The method for insonating as defined in claim 12, further comprising:
wirelessly transmitting the digital signal from the ultrasound probe to a base unit, the base unit processing the digital signal to produce an ultrasonic image. 

  
 14. The method for insonating as defined in claim 10, wherein amplifying the multiplexed analog signal further comprises changing the multiplexed analog signal from a single-ended signal to a differential signal.

  
 15. The method for insonating as defined in claim 10, wherein the transducers are crystal transducers and wherein the transducers of the subset of transducers in the array are contiguous.

  
 16. The method for insonating as defined in claim 10, wherein the additional electrical analog signals are produced by echo receive pulses produced by subsequent transmission of ultrasonic transmit pulses.

  
 17. The method for insonating as defined in claim 10, wherein detecting an ultrasonic echo receive pulse further comprises detecting a plurality of ultrasonic echo receiver pulses.

  
 18. A low power ultrasound probe for use in wirelessly transmitting ultrasonic image data to a base unit for production of an ultrasonic image, the low power ultrasound probe comprising:
an outer covering housing a plurality internal probe components, the internal probe components including:
a head portion including a plurality of transducers;
a plurality of pulser/receiver modules that cause the transducers to emit a plurality of ultrasonic transmit pulses, the pulser/receiver modules further configured to receive analog signals relating to a plurality of ultrasonic echo receive pulses detected by at least one of the transducers;
a multiplexer that combines the analog signals into a multiplexed analog signal;
a singular low noise amplifier that amplifies the multiplexed analog signal;
a singular analog-to-digital converter that converts the multiplexed analog signal to a digital signal;
a field-programmable gate array that controls the pulser/receiver modules and the analog-to-digital converter; and
a wireless interface enabling the digital signal to be wirelessly transmitted from the ultrasound probe to an image processor of the base unit.
 

  
 19. The low power ultrasound probe as defined in claim 18, wherein the base unit includes a wireless interface for receiving the digital signal transmitted from the ultrasound probe.

  
 20. The low power ultrasound probe as defined in claim 19, wherein the internal probe components are included on at least one circuit board.

  
 21. The low power ultrasound probe as defined in claim 20, wherein the internal probe components are included on three circuit boards, the circuit boards being in a stacked configuration.

  
 22. The low power ultrasound probe as defined in claim 21, wherein the multiplexer includes a plurality of multiplexers that are controlled by the field-programmable gate array.

  
 23. The low power ultrasound probe as defined in claim 22, wherein the plurality of transducers includes 64 crystal transducers, wherein the plurality of pulser/receiver modules includes 64 pulser/receiver modules, and wherein the plurality of multiplexers includes eight multiplexers.

  
 24. The low power ultrasound probe as defined in claim 23, further comprising a lithium-ion battery for powering the internal probe components.

  
 25. The low power ultrasound probe as defined in claim 25, further comprising a plurality of pulser buffers interposed between the field-programmable gate array and the plurality of pulser/receiver modules.

  
 26. A method of ultrasonically scanning a target object, the method comprising:
firing a plurality of transducers at the target object; receiving data by only a first transducer of the plurality of transducers; re-firing the plurality of transducers at the target; receiving data by only a second transducer of the plurality of transducers; and repeating the steps of firing the plurality of transducers and receiving data by a single, sequential transducer until the target object is scanned. 

  
 27. The method of ultrasonically scanning a target object as defined in claim 26, further comprising:
producing an image from the received data.