Source: [US2483821A](https://patents.google.com/patent/US2483821A)

# [US2483821A](US2483821A.md) - Inspection of a solid part utilizing supersonic transmission

## Details

* Date: 1945-06-28
* Inventor: Sperry Products Inc
* Beneficiary: Floyd A Firestone

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * GB191325207A
 * US2378237A
### Forward
 * US2524208A
 * US2625035A
 * US2682766A
 * US2746480A
 * US3074268A
 * US4117732A
 * [US4143554A](US4143554A.md)
 * US4147064A
 * FR2476831A1
 * US20040206181A1
 * US9418647B2
## Abstract

out. 4, 1949. 
F. A. FIRESTONE INSPECTION OF A SOLID PART UTILIZING SUPERSONIC TRANSMISSION Filed June 28, 1945 INVENTOR. 
/'-L 0Y0 /7. HR ESTO NE atented @ct. a W49 INSPECTION OF A SOLID PART UTILIZIN SUPERSONIC TRAN SMISSIQN Floyd A. Firestone, Ann Arbor, Mich, assignor to Sperry Products, Inc., Hoboken, N. 3., a corporation of New York Application June 28, 1945, Serial No. 602,103 
' 3 Claims. 1 
 This invention relates to the inspection of materials by supersonic waves. Such inspection may be eflected either by causing the supersonic wave to be transmitted through the material and detecting the presence of flaws by the influence which they exert on the transmitted wave, or by causing the incident beam to be reflected from the surface presented by the flaw and measuring the elapsed time between sending and receiving the wave, as disclosed in my Patent No. 2,280,226, granted April 21, 1942. In one method of supersonic inspection, a plate to be inspected is moved past a wave sending station and the wave transmitted through the plate is received at a receiving station. In order that the plate may be moved relative to said stations, so that the entire area may be inspected, the sending and receiving means, which are one or more electro-acoustic transducers, are spaced from the plate. Since the waves cannot be transmitted effectively through air, the plate to be inspected, as well as the wave sending and receiving mechanisms are immersed in a liquid. 
 In the above arrangement it has been found that standing waves are set up between the sending means and the plate and between the receiving means and the plate. These standing waves are the result of multiple reflections between the plate and the sending and receiving means. If the distances between the plate and the sender and receiver could be kept absolutely constant, these standing waves would not create any special problem. However, it is not possible to prevent slight variations in these distances. Since the supersonic wave, and hence the standing wave may have a frequency of one million to ten million cycles or more, it will be realized that a wave length is extremely small and a change of distance between the transducer and the plate of one half wave length (which may be a fraction of a millimetre) will cause the transducer to change from the position of a node to the position of an anti-node. In other words, such a minute change will cause a variation corresponding to the full amplitude of the standing wave, which may correspond to several volts output. This variation is large in comparison with the variation introduced in the transmitted wave by a flaw in the plate under inspection, so that a fiaw may possiby be missed because it is obscured by the larger variation due to the change of position of the transducer relative to the standing wave. 
 It is therefore the principal object of this inventlon to minimize the effect of the standing "VC- Further objects and advantages of this invention will become apparent in the following detailed description thereof. 
 The accompanying drawing is a vertical section, largely diagrammatic, showing one embodiment of this invention. 
 Referring to the drawing, there is shown a plate l0 which is to be inspected by supersonic means. In the form shown, an electro-acoustic transducer II in the form of a quartz crystal is connected to an oscillator l2 for generating and transmitting a supersonic wave through the plate l0, and the effect of the plate on the wave transmitted therethrough is detected by a receiving electro-acoustic transducer l5 which is also a quartz crystal. An electro-acoustic transducer is a device for converting an alternating voltage into a sound wave and vice versa. The sound waves received by the crystal l5 are converted into electric voltages which may be amplified by any suitable amplifier l6 whose output may be indicated by any suitable indicator H. 
 To permit th 'plate II] to be moved relative to the sending and receiving crystals without actual contact which would be impractical because of wear on the crystals, the plate and the crystals are immersed in a liquid. The liquids which have heretofore been used such as water and mercury have caused standing waves to be set up between the transducers and the plate under inspection, as set forth in the introduction hereto. Any slight variations in the distance between plate I!) and crystal H such as are unavoidable in actual testing will cause changes in the amount of standing wave which is transmitted through the plate I0. There is also a second standing wave system between the crystal l5 and the plate I, and unavoidable variations in this distance cause changes in the amount of standing wave intercepted by the crystal l5 as indicated on the indicator l'l. These standing wave efiects are often of such magnitude as to cause changes of reading of the indicator of a factor of 10 or more due to slight variations in the relative positions of the plate and transducers, thereby completely masking in many cases the effect of small flaws, such as shown at l8, whose influence on coming between the crystals l l and I5 is less than the effect of unavoidable variations in the positions of the crystals relative to the standing wave. 
 My solution of the above problem consists in employing as the medium through which the waves are transmitted, a liquid having the property of considerably attenuating the supersonic s5 waves, 1. e., of absorbing the energy of these waves. Since the standing waves are produced by successive reflections between the crystal and the plate, such absorption of energy will serve to cut down the number of reflections and to reduce the amplitude of its vibrations. The medium must be such that absorption will serve to minimize the effect of the standing waves to a point where the minimum flaws to be detected are not obscured by the standing waves- One such'medium is castor oil. Such absorption of energy will serve to cut down the overall transmission 1 from crystal H to crystal l5, but to a consider proportional to the square of its amplitude, other things being constant. 
 In accordance with the provisions of the patent statutes, I have herein described the principle and operation of my invention, together with the apparatus which I now consider to represent the best embodiment thereof, but I desire to have it understood that the apparatus shown is only illustrative and that the invention can be carried out by other equivalent means. Also, while it is designed to use the various features and elements in the combination and relations described, some of these may be altered and others omitted without interfering with the more general results outlined, and the invention extends to such use. 
 Having described my invention, what I claim and desire to secure by Letters Patent is: 
 1. In a supersonic inspection system for a solid body, wherein supersonic waves are adapted to be passed through the body from a transmitter spaced from the body and the waves are measured by a receiver spaced from the body,- the method of minimizing the standing waves between the body and the transmitter and between the body and the receiver, which consists in immersing the body, the receiver and the transmitter in a means immersed in the liquid liquid having wave attenuating properties sumcient to reduce the standing waves to a point where they are insufliclent to interfere with the eilect of the smallest deiects to be detected in the body, and amplifying the waves received by the receiver to such degree as to make them measurable. 
, 2. In a supersonic inspection device for a solid body, a liquid in which the body is immersed, for generatinfl supersonic waves and passing the waves through the liquid to strike the body, means immersed in the liquid for receiving supersonic waves transmitted through said body, said liquid having ca- 'pacity .toattenuate the waves to a degree such that standing ,waves between the generating I means'and the body andbetween the receiving means and the body are reduced to a point where the standing waves are insuflicient to interfere with the efiect of the smallest defects to be detected in the body, and an amplifierfor amplifying the waves received by the receiver to such degree as to make them measurable. 
- 3. An inspection device as specified in claim 2, 
in which the liquid is castor oil. 
FLOYD A. FIRESTONE. 
 REFERENCES CITED The following references are of record in the An article entitled Supersonics at Work, by Keith Henney, published in the Scientific American, July 1944, pgs. 10-12. 
 A book entitled "Supersonics, the Science of Inaudible Sounds," by R. W. Wood, published by Brown University, Providence, R. 1., 1939, pages -55 and 121-123.