Source: [US3526036A](https://patents.google.com/patent/US3526036A)

# [US3526036A](US3526036A.md) - [US3526036A](US3526036A.md) - Ultrasonic dental apparatus

## Details

* Date: 1968-04-01
* Inventor: 
* Beneficiary: Sven Karl Lennart Goof

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * [US2874470A](US2874470A.md)
 * [US3213537A](US3213537A.md)
### Forward
 * US3763411A
 * EP0023009A1
 * [USRE30536E](USRE30536E.md)
 * US4501558A
 * JPH0385010U
 * [US5775901A](US5775901A.md)
 * [US5776155A](US5776155A.md)
 * [US5810859A](US5810859A.md)
 * [US5938633A](US5938633A.md)
 * [US5957943A](US5957943A.md)
 * [US5968060A](US5968060A.md)
 * [US5989275A](US5989275A.md)
 * [US5989274A](US5989274A.md)
 * US6030212A
 * [US6051010A](US6051010A.md)
 * US6164968A
 * US6328566B1
 * [US6716028B2](US6716028B2.md)
 * US20040126737A1
 * [US20040126738A1](US20040126738A1.md)
 * [US6811399B2](US6811399B2.md)
 * [US20080057471A1](US20080057471A1.md)
 * EP2050414A1
 * US20110091837A1
 * US8882503B2
 * CN104760952A
 * EP3181290A1
 * [US9788925B2](US9788925B2.md)
## Abstract

Sept. 1, 1970 s. K. L.` GooF 3,526,036 
ULTRASONIC DENTAL APPARATUS Filed Jan. 2, 1969 2 'sheets-sheet 1 72 25d$24 24a/Q /7 28 73 74d Sept. l, 1970 s. K. GooF ULTRASONIC DENTAL APPARATUS 2 Sheets-Sheet 2 Filed Jan. 2, 1969 United States Patent O ULTRASONIC DENTAL APPARATUS Sven Karl Lennart Goof, 4 Bjaelkevangen, 
 2800 Lyngby, Denmark Filed Jan. 2, 1969, Ser. No. 789,114 Claims priority, application Great Britain, Apr. 1, 1968, 15,608/ 68 Int. Cl. A61c 1/08 U.S. Cl. 32--28 22 Claims ABSTRACT F THE DISCLOSURE Annular passages are provided in the handpiece portion of an ultrasonic dental tool for passage of cooling uid to cool the transducer of the tool. The annular passages are in communication with passages in the tip structure for cooling the vibrating member. This arrangement provides a single cooling system and enables the overall size of the structure to be minimized. Also a switch is mounted in the handpiece which is hand actuable by the operator. 
 The present invention relates to an ultrasonic dental apparatus of the type including a transducer for converting electrical energy into mechanical vibrations which are transmitted to a vibration member and further including means for passing a cooling medium through the apparatus. 
 Apparatus of this type are usually constructed with a handpiece portion in which the transducer is located and an an exchangeable inset with a tip which effectively provides the vibrating member. 
 It is the purpose of the invention to provide an apparatus of the kind briey referred to hereinbefore which is of high efficiency and reliable in operation. 
 It is the further purpose of the invention to provide an apparatus of the kind referred to which is 0f small dimensions. 
 A further purpose of the invention is to provide an apparatus of the kind referred to in which actuator means for the transducer switch is included in the handpiece structure and can be easily operated by the dentist in any position of the apparatus. 
 With these and other objects in mind which will appear from the following detailed specification, the invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawing in which: 
 FIG. 1 shows the apparatus according to the invention in perspective view, 
 FIG. 2 shows the front part of the apparatus of FIG. 1 in partly exploded View, 
FIG. 3 shows the front part of FIG. 2 in exploded view, 
 FIG. 4 shows the front part of the apparatus in cross section, 
 FIGS. 5 and 6 show the apparatus with the means for turning the ultrasonic producing means off and on, and 
 FIG. 7 shows the means for turning the ultrasonic producing means off and on in partly exploded view. 
 In the embodiment of the apparatus to be described in more detail in the following, a cylindrical structure is illustrated which comprises in brief terms a transducer comprising a coil member 14, 14a and a core member 13, an elongated handpiece structure A, a tip structure B having a vibrating member 10, means for mounting said tip structure and said handpiece structure including means for transmitting vibrations from said transducer to said vibration member and means for allowing cooling medium to pass through said handpiece as well as said tip structure comprising in combination: an interior tubular member 14 in said handpiece structure, means for mounting the transducer coil on said tubular member, a second tubular member 28 surrounding said rst tubular member 14 and separated therefrom by means of an elongated annular space, means adjacent the rear end of said handpiece structure having means for connection with a cooling medium supply pipe 40 (FIG. 7) with a cooling medium passage in communication with said elongated annular space, a cooling medium nozzle 21a secured in said tip structure B, tubular members 24 and 29 in said tip structure B located in concentric relationship to form therebetween an annular space in communication with said nozzle 21a and passage means for providing communication between the annular space of said tip structure and the annular space of said handpiece strucure when said tip structure is mounted in said handpiece structure and a switch member for switching the transducer on and off, including a manually operable actuator member for said switch member provided on said handpiece structure. 
 In more detail, the tip structure B comprises the vibration member 10 and a substantially cylindrical transmission member 12 which is rigidly secured to said tip member 10. The tip structure B further comprises a nozzle structure 23 having a uid passage 22 therethrough and a nozzle member 21a firmly secured thereon in communication with the passage 22 and comprising a tubular member 24 surrounding said transmission member 12 concentrically slightly spaced therefrom and a mounting member 25 for said nozzle structure having a cylindrical member 29 surrounding said first mentioned cylindrical member 24 and forming an annular space therebetween. 
 The mounting structure 25 comprises a portion of increased diameter having a substantially cylindrical space therein for receiving the nozzle structure and having at one end a radially extending portion with an exterior shoulder S and an interior shoulder, the cylindrical member 29 extending from said radially extending portion 25a. 
 In more details, the nozzle supporting member 23 is in the form of a substantially cylindrical member which is mounted between the interior shoulder of said supporting structure 25 with a packing portion 27 therebetween and a radially extending flange 11 firmly secured to said tip structure 10, 12 at the point of junction between the tip member 10 and the transmission member 12, said flange member 11 being provided with a notch 11a for the passage of the nozzle member 21a and at which further a fastening member 26 is provided for firmly engaging the tip structure and the fiange against the bottom of the supporting structure 25. 
 The handpiece structure A is at its front end provided with a radially extending portion F defining a shoulder operable to engage said shoulder S of the tip structure when the latter is mounted in said handpiece structure and in which further the exterior tubular member 29 of said tip structure in said mounted position terminates in spaced relationship relatively to the interior tubular member 14 of said handpiece structure to provide a radially extending space R to communicate between the annular space of said handpiece structure and the annular space of said tip structure. 
 Preferably, the concentrically located tubular members of the handpiece structure are made of insulating material. 
 The vibrating member 10 may have any suitable configuration depending on the kind of work to be done with the apparatus. 
 The transducer core 13 may be of the type consisting of sintered particles of magnetisable material in the form of an elongated member having means for releasable connection with the end of the transmission member 12. The transducer core is fed by a direct current and an alternating current which orientate the crystals of the transducer core and provide a vibration of the transducer core as it is known to those skilled in the art. Said vibration is transmitted to the transmission member 12 through a connection 17 which preferably should be of a type which only transmits one maximum. This may be obtained by a diametrical bore 18 at the point of junction. The coil is preferably fed by an alternating current of about 37 kHz., and hence the vibrating member 10- will vibrate with a speed of this order of magnitude. 
 By this vibration heat is developed, and it is therefore necessary to cool the teeth and the vibrating member 10. This cooling is obtained by means of the cooling medium preferably water which is supplied from the rear end of the handpiece structure A through the supply pipe 40, passes through the elongated annular space dened between the lirst tubular member 14 and the second tubular member 28. From said elongated annular space, the cooling medium flows through the radial space R and enters the annular space defined between the tubular members 24 and 29 in the tip structure B. The radial space R is provided because the tubular member 14 has larger dimensions than the tubular members in the tip structure. These larger dimensions are necessary because the tubular member 14 is made of insulating material and is adapted to receive the coil 14a. In order to ensure that the cooling water does not flow back to the transducer core 13, a ring packing 31 is provided between the tubular member 14 and the turbular member 24, extending from the nozzle supporting member 23. A further ring packing is provided between the exterior cylindrical member 29 and an extension of reduced inner diameter of said second tubular member 28. 
 The annular space 24a defined between the tubular member 24 and the tubular member 29 may be e.g. 1/100 mm. whereby it is possible to supply the same amount of water through the annular space which other-wise would require a tube having a diameter of about 1/2 mm. The tip structure 10, 12, the nozzle supporting member 21 and the mounting member 25 are held together by means of the fastening member 26 which may be screwed into a female thread in the front part of the mounting member 25. In order to ensure that the cooling medium ilows from the annular space 24a to the nozzle 21a, the ring packing 27 is provided between the interior shoulder of the supporting structure 25 and the nozzle supporting member 23. This ring packing 27 ensures that the water does not iiow between the space defined between the cylindrical front part of the nozzle supporting member 23 and the front part of the supporting structure 25 and said ring packing 27 further serves the purpose of being a distant member between the nozzle supporting member 23 and the interior shoulder of the supporting structure 25 and hence provides a steady flow from the annular space 24a to the liuid passage 22 in the nozzle structure 23. 
 It should be noticed that the width of the radial space R is determined by the length of the tubular member 29 which is so adjusted that when the exterior shoulder S on the radially extending portion 25a engages to radially extending portion F of the handpiece structure, the radial space R is formed. 
 When desired, the tip structure B including the transducer core 13 may be removed from the apparatus wherein itis kept in place by means of the ring packings 30- and 31 and may be substituted by a new part wherein the vibrating member and/or the nozzle member has another coniiguration. Also the transducer core 13 may be replaced by a new transducer core by this operation. 
 The invention therefore also comprises in an ultrasonic dental apparatus having a handpiece structure including transducer means and a channel for passing cooling medium through said handpiece structure to a cooling medium outlet thereof and means for releasably receiving a tip structure having a vibration member, an improved tip structure comprising in combination: a tip member and a vibrating transmission member 12 rigidly secured thereto, a nozzle structure and supporting means for said tip structure and said nozzle structure including concentrically located tubular members forming therebetween an annular space in communication with said nozzle member and operable to communicate with the cooling medium of said handpiece structure when said tip structure is received therein. 
 This tip structure may further comprise the improvements discussed above. 
 According to a preferred embodiment of the apparatus disclosed the switch member for switching the transducer on and off comprises an electric switch 15 of the type generally known as a microswitch. 
 This switch 15 is mounted on a mounting means provided with the supply pipe 40 for cooling medium and a ring packing 42 which iits into the rear part of said second tubular member 28 in such a Way that the micro switch 15 is protected against the flow of water through the apparatus. The microswitch 15 is operatively connected with the transducer coil 14a. The tubular member 28 surrounding the transducer coil 14a is concentric with and mounted inside the exterior mantle 32 which forms the rear end of the handpiece. 
 The switch 15 cooperates with an elongated member 39 which is mounted for reciprocation inside the handpiece and at its other end is connected -with an actuator member 38 or ring member which is reciprocable between abutments at each end of an annular groove 37a in the handpiece. 
 The exterior front part 36 has a portion of reduced diameter which form the annular groove 37a and on which the ring member 38 is mounted. The length of this portion corresponds to the stroke of the ring member. 
 The tubular member 28 has a front portion 33 of reduced diameter which when the parts are mounted together extends into the front piece 36 inside the portion of reduced diameter. A shoulder 28a is on the tubular member 2'8 and the end of the portion 37a abuts against this shoulder when the parts are mounted, whereby the shoulder 28a limits the movement of the ring member 38. The tubular member 28 `fits' closely inside the exterior mantle 32 and is provided with an elongated groove 34 for the elongated member 39 which actuates the switch. 
 The elongated member 39 is secured to the ring member on its interior side and to provide passage for the longated member 39 the portion 37a has a slot 37 which aligns with the groove 34. 
 As it will be appreciated, the elongated member 39 may be in the form of a flat spring of a thickness of e.g. 0.5 mm. whereby the inclusion of the switch and the handpiece does not require any larger dimensions. 
 The exterior diameter of the ring member 38 is slightly larger than the exterior diameter of the handpiece so that it is easily operable. 
 The whole apparatus can be -rmly held in the dentists hand with all the fingers and the thumb free for operating the ring member 3-8 to switch on and off the apparatus in any position of the tip structure. 
 The supply pipe 40 for cooling medium and the electrigal supply cable 16 is preferably combined in one single ca le. 
 It should be noticed that the dimensions of the various parts are not critical except for the front part where the dimensions should be as small as possible. This means that all the other parts of the apparatus may be manufactured in mass production and thereby the costs are lowered. 
What is claimed is: 1. An ultrasonic dental apparatus comprising: an elongated handpiece structure (A); a tip structure (B) mounted to said handpiece structure (A) and having a vibration member (10); 
a transducer interior of said handpiece structure and comprising a core member (13) and `a coil (14a) surrounding and spaced from said core member; 
means for mounting said tip structure to said handpiece structure including means for transmitting vibrations from said transducer to said vibration member; 
a source (16) of cooling medium; and 
means for passing said cooling medium through said handpiece structure (A) and through said tip structure (B) comprising: 
a first tubular member (14) interior of said handpiece structure (A) surrounding and spaced from said transducer core member (13) to form a first elongated annular space therebetween; 
said transducer coil (14a) being mounted on said rst tubular member (14); 
a second tubular member (28) interior of said handpiece structure (A) surrounding and spaced from said first tubular member (14) to form a second elongated annular space therebetween; 
means coupling said cooling medium source (16) at the rear end of said handpiece structure (A) and passing said cooling medium to said second elongated annular space; 
a cooling medium nozzle (21a) mounted in said tip structure (B); 
at least third and fourth tubular members (24, 29) in said tip structure (B) located in spaced concentric relationship with respect to each other to form therebetween a third annular space in communication (22) with said nozzle (21a); 
passage means (R) providing communication between said third annular space in said tip structure (B) and said second elongated annular space in said handpiece structure (A); and 
a switch member in said handpiece structure (A) for switching said transducer on and off including a manually operable actuator member (38) provided on said handpiece structure (A). 
2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which: 
said vibration transmitting means includes a substantially cylindrical transmission member (12) rigidly secured to said vibration member means forming a second iiuid passage (22) provides said communication between said nozzle (21a) and said third annular space; and 
said third tubular member (24) concentrically surrounds said transmission member (12) and is spaced therefrom, and said fourth tubular member (29) includes a cylindrical portion surrounding said third mentioned tubular member and forming said third annular space therebetween; 
and comprising: 
means mounting said nozzle (21a) to said tubular members (24, 29). 
 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 in which said fourth tubular member (24) comprises a portion of increased diameter (25) having a substantially cylindrical space therein for receiving said nozzle (21a), a radially extending portion (25a) with an exterior shoulder and an interior shoulder, said increased diameter portion extending from said radially extending portion. 
 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 in which said nozzle mounting means includes: 
a substantially cylindrical member (23) mounted within said increased diameter portion (25 of said fourth tubular member and adjacent said interior shoulder of said radially extending portion (25a); 
a sealing member (27) between said cylindrical member (23) and said interior shoulder; 
means mounting said nozzle (21a) firmly to said cylindrical member (23); 
a radially extending flange (11) firmly secured to said tip structure (B) at the junction point between said vibration member (10) and said transmission member (12), said iiange (11) having a notch (11a) therein for the passage of said nozzle member (21a) therethrough; and 
a fastening member (26) engaging said increased diameter portion (25) of said fourth tubular member to secure said flange (11) and said cylindrical member (23) to said increased diameter portion (2S). 
 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 in which said handpiece structure (A) includes a radially extending portion defining a shoulder (F) to engage said exterior shoulder of said fourth tubular member when said tip structure (B) is mounted in said handpiece structure (A) such that said fourth tubular member (29) of said tip structure in said mounted position terminates in spaced relationship relative to said first tubular member (14) in said handpiece structure to provide a radially extending space (R) to communicate between said second elongated annular space in said handpiece structure and said third annular space in said tip structure. 
 6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which said concentrically located tubular members (14, 28) of said handpiece structure are of insulating material. 
 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which said core (13) is an elongated core of sintered particlesi of magnetizable material, and further comprising means for releaseably coupling said core with said vibration transmitting means. 
 8. In an ultrasonic dental apparatus having a tip structure (B) including a vibration member (10); and a handpiece structure (A) receiving said tip structure (B) and including transducer means (13, 14a), an annular channel formed in said handpiece structure for passing a cooling medium therethrough to a cooling medium outlet thereof, and means for releasably receiving said tip structure, 
an improved tip structure comprising: 
a vibrating transmission -member (12) rigidly secured to said vibration member; 
a nozzle structure; and 
supporting means for said vibration member and for said nozzle structure including concentrically located tubular members (24, 29) forming therebetween an annular space in communication with said nozzle structure and in communication with said cooling medium outlet of said handpiece structure when said tip structure is received by said handpiece structure. 
 9. In apparatus according to claim 8, the improved tip structure in which said nozzle structure comprises a nozzle member (21a), said nozzle supporting means including a substantially cylindrical member (23) having a cooling medium passage (22) therethrough, said nozzle member (21a) being rigidly secured to said cylindrical member (23) in communication with said iiuid passage (22). 
 10. In apparatus according to claim 9 said nozzle supporting means comprising an elongated tubular member (24) extending from said cylindrical member (23) and concentrically surrounding and spaced from said transmission member. 
 11. In apparatus according to claim 10, said supporting means comprising a member (25, 29) having: a rst substantially cylindrical portion having a bore therein for receiving said nozzle structure; a radially extending portion (25a) extending from said iirst portion and having a shoulder (S) for engaging the front end of the handpiece structure (A) when the tip structure (B) is mounted thereto; and a third tubular portion (29) axially extending from said radial portion and of larger interior diameter than the exterior diameter of said tubular member (24) which extends from the cylindrical member (23) and which extends concentrically therewith when said nozzle supporting means is mounted in said bore. 
 12. In apparatus according to claim 8, the improved tip structure comprising a radially extending iiange (11) rigidly secured to said vibration member (10i) and to said transmission member (12) at the junction point therebetween said flange (11) having a notch (11a) formed therein for the passage therethrough of said nozzle member (21a). 
 13. In apparatus according to claim 11, the improved tip structure comprising: 
a radially extending flange (11) rigidly secured to said vibration member and to said transmission member (12) at the junction point therebetween, said flange (11) having a notch (11a) formed therein for the passage therethrough of said nozzle member (21a), said nozzle supporting means being located on the side of said flange (11) remote from said vibrating member (10); 
a sealing member engaged between said radially extending portion (25a) and said cylindrical member (23); and 
a tightening member (26) engaging said supporting means for securing said parts together. 
 14. In apparatus according to claim 8 the improvement wherein said transducer comprises an elongated core (13) of sintered magnetizable particles and further comprising a releaseable connecting means (17) coupling said transducer means to said transmission member (12). 
 15. In an ultrasonic dental apparatus having: a tip structure (B) including a vibration member; a handpiece structure (A) including a vibration transducer therein, means mounting said tip structure to said handpiece structure, vibration transmissionmeans coupled between said transducer and said tip structure, and means having a single cooling medium inlet for passing a cooling medium through said handpiece structure and through said tip structure, 
the improvement comprising: 
a transducer coil mounted in said handpiece structure; 
a switch electrically connected with said transducer coil; 
and 
means for mounting said switch in the rear end of said handpiece structure including a tubular structure surrounding said transducer coil and having an annular recess therein, an annular switch actuator member mounted for reciprocation in said annular recess, and means connecting said annular switch actuator 16. Apparatus as claimed in claim in which the exterior diameter of said annular switch actuator member is larger than the exterior diameter of said handpiece structure. 
 17. Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 in which said handpiece structure includes a plurality of concentric cylindrical members comprising an exterior front member (36) with a portion of reduced diameter on which said annular switch actuator member is mounted, the length of said reduced diameter portion Ydefining the stroke of said actuator member. 
 18. Apparatus as claimed in claim 17, in which said exterior front member (36) has a radially extending shoulder (F against which a portion of lthe tip structure abuts when said tip and handpiece structures are assembled together. 
 19. Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 in which said tubular structurevhas a groove formed in the exterior surface thereof and in which said means connecting said annular switch actuator member to operate said switch includes an elongated member (39) which is located in said groove in said exterior surface of said tubular structure. 
 20. Apparatus as claimed in claim 19, in which said elongated member (39) is secured to the interior surface of said annular switch actuator member (38). 
 21. Apparatus as claimed in claim 17 in which said handpiece structure comprises: a Erst interior elongated tubular member of insulating material having a reduced diameter portion on which said transducer coil is mounted; a second tubular member of insulating material concentrically surrounding said first tubular member and forming an elongated annular space therebetween, said annular space comprising said cooling medium passage; said second tubular member having a portion of reduced interior diameter adjacent the front end of said handpiece structure to receive therein the end portion of the tip structure; and a third exterior tubular structure having said annular recess for receiving said annular switch actuator member. 
 22. Apparatus as claimed in claim 21, in which the front end portions of said first and second tubular members are provided with packing means for providing sealing engagement of said tip structure and said handpiece structure when assembled. 
References Cited UNITED STATES PATENTS 2,874,470 2/ 1959 Richards 32-58 3,213,537 10/1965 Balamuth et al 32-58 XR ROBERT PESHOCK, Primary Examiner U.S. Cl. X.R. 
 UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE CERTIFICATE OF CORRECTION Patent No. 3,526,036 September l, 1970 Sven Karl Lennart Goof It is certified that error appears in the above identified patent and that said Letters Patent are hereby corrected as shown below: 
"turbular" should read tubular Column 3 line 27 insert member to Column 7, line 39, after "switch actuator operate said switch Signed and sealed this 16th day of February 1971. 
(SEAL) Attest: 
Edward Fletcher, Ir. 
Attesting Officer Commissioner of Patents WILTJAM E. SCHUYLER, 11i;