Source: [US410935A](https://patents.google.com/patent/US410935A)

# [US410935A](US410935A.md) - [US410935A](US410935A.md) - Ferdinand schmidt

## Details

* Date: 
* Inventor: 
* Beneficiary: 

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * 
### Forward
 * US2694435A
 * US2714918A
 * US2884043A
 * [US4785819A](US4785819A.md)
## Abstract

' (No Model.) 
F. SCHMIDT. 
DENTAL PLUGGBR. 
 No. 410,935. Patented Sept. 10, 1889. 
 Elle? 2 I [NYE/V702? N. PKTERS, FhoQo-Lflhogmpher. Washingtms BIC UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE. 
FERDINAND SCHMIDT, OF DEMMIN, PRUSSIA, GERMANY. 
DENTAL PLUGGER. 
SPECIFICATION forming part of Letters Patent No. 410,935, dated September 10, 1889. 
Application filed April 13, 1889. Serial No. 307,116. (No model.) Patented in Germany April 4, 1888, No. 45,279. 
To all whom it may concern: 
 Be it known that I, FERDINAND SCHMIDT, a subject of the Emperor of Germany, residing at Demmin, in the Province of Pomerania, Kingdom of Prussia, in the Empire of Germany, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Dental Pluggers, (for which Letters Patent of the German Empire, No. 45,279, have been issued to me under date of April 4, 1888,) of which the following is a specification. 
 My invention relates to dental pluggers adapted to be used either as a hand-plugger or as a plugging attachment to dental engines; and it consists in the improved construction and combination of parts of a device of that class, as willbe hereinafter more fully described and claimed. 
 Reference being had to the accompanying drawings, forming part of this specification, and in which like letters of reference denote corresponding parts in the several figures, Figure 1 is a longitudinal sectional view of my improved dental plugger. Fig. 2 is a cross-section on line a a, Fig. 1. Fig. 3 is a cross-section on line b b, Fig. ,1. Fig. 4 is a cross-section on line 0 c, Fig. 1. Fig. 5 is a cross-section on line (1 d, Fig. 1. Fig. 6 is a top or plan view of the revolving cam, which operates the hammer. Fig. 7 is a side elevation of the same with part of its shaft; and Fig. 8 is a sectional view of the outer end of the device, illustrating a slightly-modified construction and arrangement of the parts. 
 The letter A denotes the lower part or sheath of my improved device, which is in the nature of a tube, and has secured at its upper end a tubular casting B of a reduced diameter, forming a bearing for the centrally-revolving shaft 0, the lower end of which is adapted to be connected tothe revolving bit of a dental engine, or may be operated by hand. By preference this lower tubular part or section A is made in two separate parts, as shown in Fig. 5; but this is not necessary. 
 The revolving shaft 0 is provided at its upper end with a concentric circular disk or button D, the top or face of which is shaped to form a cam having a projecting sloping point d. The disk D projects into and is covered by a hood or cap-piece E, which is fastened upon the part B bymeans of a set-screw F. By turning the set-screws so as to disengage it from the part B it will be seen that the hood or cap-piece E may be removed, so as to expose the disk or cam D. This hood, cover, or cappiece E contains within it a reciprocating slide or bar G, the throw or movement of which may be regulated by means of a set-screw H, the inner end of which projects into the recess h in one sideofthe bar. At the upper end of the cap E is pivoted upon a pin I the hammer or plugger-head J, which is preferably of the shape shown in the drawings, provided with a projecting lip or tongue 11, forming the plugger proper, and which is of such a shape as to adapt it to be inserted into the cavity of the tooth operated upon, and bear against the plugging inserted therein. 
 The pivoted hammer or plugger-head J is provided. near its fulcrumlwith a downwardly-projecting lip or shoulder j, which engages a spring K, fastened upon the concave side of the cap-piece E by means of the bindingscrew H. The tendency of this spring is to force the flattened side of the plugger-head or hammer J against the top of the cap-piece E, as indicated in full lines in the drawings. If desired, this arrangement may be slightly modified or varied, as illustrated in Fig. 8, by dispensing with the reciprocating slide-bar G and extending shaft 0, causing its revolvin g cam 61 to bear directly against a lip e, proj ecting downwardly from the hammer, the spring K at the same time being shifted to the opposite side of the oappiece E, where it engages a lip j on the corresponding side of the pivoted hammer. Again, instead of fastening the said hood or cap-piece E direct upon the outer end of the part B, as in Fig. 8, atubular washer may be interposed, as shown at B in Fig. 1, so as to get a longer and better bearing for the set-screw F. 
 By pivoting the hammer J at I, as shown in the drawings, I in operating the tool cause its point or striker ito vibrate or oscillate in the arc of a circle having the hammer-fulorum I for its center, thereby imparting a direct and positive blow upon the filling of the tooth operated upon at each revolution of the cam. This hammer, as stated, is pivoted upon bolt I, the ends of said bolt being secured in and cam, the pivoted oscillating hammer or plugger-head formed on its end with the point or striker, and the spring, substantially as set forth. 
 2. In a dental plugger of: the described class, the combination of the revolving shaft and cam, the reciprocating slide-bar, the pivoted oscillating hammer, and the spring, substantially as and for the purpose set forth. 
 FERDINAND SCHMIDT. Witnesses: 
A. SToLD, A. G. ALLMEEK.