Source: [US4271842A](https://patents.google.com/patent/US4271842A)

# [US4271842A](US4271842A.md) - [US4271842A](US4271842A.md) - Apparatus and method for providing multiple ultrasonic sector image displays

## Details

* Date: 1978-03-03
* Inventor: ELSCINT IMAGING Inc
  , 
    Elscint Ltd
  , 
    Elscint Inc
* Beneficiary: Donald F. Specht, Paul R. Goldberg

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * US3624744A
 * US3744479A
 * US3830223A
 * [US3864660](US3864660.md)A
 * US3871360A
 * US3952201A
 * [US3954098A](US3954098A.md)
 * [US3955561A](US3955561A.md)
 * [US3974826A](US3974826A.md)
 * [US4029948A](US4029948A.md)
 * US4033335A
 * [US4034744A](US4034744A.md)
 * US4037585A
 * US4045815A
 * [US4058001A](US4058001A.md)
 * US4075883A
 * US4079417A
 * [US4100916A](US4100916A.md)
 * [US4111055A](US4111055A.md)
 * [US4121250A](US4121250A.md)
 * [US4127034A](US4127034A.md)
 * [US4159462](US4159462.md)A
### Forward
 * US4381675A
 * US4443862A
 * [US4454764A](US4454764A.md)
 * [US4457311A](US4457311A.md)
 * [US4458689A](US4458689A.md)
 * US4459990A
 * [US4476873A](US4476873A.md)
 * EP0121766A1
 * [US4489729A](US4489729A.md)
 * US4499771A
 * US4501279A
 * US4507968A
 * US4572202A
 * US4593314A
 * EP0212278A2
 * US4790321A
 * DE3832272A1
 * [US5005579A](US5005579A.md)
 * US5099847A
 * US5471984A
 * [US5515856A](US5515856A.md)
 * US5971923A
 * US6126601A
 * US6171244B1
 * US6262749B1
 * US20040267124A1
 * EP1677127A1
 * EP1712904A1
 * US20070232891A1
 * US20070238999A1
 * US20080103393A1
 * US20100030075A1
 * US20100268503A1
 * US20110178400A1
 * US8068897B1
 * EP1061874B2
 * US9146313B2
 * US9220478B2
 * US9265484B2
 * US9282945B2
 * US9339256B2
 * US9510806B2
 * US9572549B2
 * US9668714B2
 * US9788813B2
 * US9861296B2
 * US9861268B2
 * US9883848B2
 * US9986969B2
 * US10226234B2
 * US10401493B2
 * US10675000B2
## Abstract

Abstract

The apparatus includes an input controller connected to receive input data representing ultrasonic sector images of a patient for digitizing selected ones of the images thereby representing those images in a digital format. A front panel interface is provided for specifying the selected ones of the sector images to be digitized. Storage means are provided for storing the digitized data and processor means are provided for controlling the digitizing and storing of the input sector data and for enhancing the digital images. Display means are provided for displaying the enhanced sector images.



The apparatus includes an input controller connected to receive input data representing ultrasonic sector images of a patient for digitizing selected ones of the images thereby representing those images in a digital format. A front panel interface is provided for specifying the selected ones of the sector images to be digitized. Storage means are provided for storing the digitized data and processor means are provided for controlling the digitizing and storing of the input sector data and for enhancing the digital images. Display means are provided for displaying the enhanced sector images.

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to apparatus providing multiple ultrasonic sector image displays.
Ultrasonic scanning of regions of the human body has found wide application in recent years. A particular type of scanner used is a sector scanner since it has the ability to display a cross-sectional area of the human body. An ultrasonic sector scanner consists of a transducer or transducers and a means of steering the ultrasonic beam through a series of angles. The steering means can be either mechanical (moving the transducer(s)) or electronic (phased arrays) or a combination of the two. The transducer itself can be a single element or an arrangement of many elements which together form a beam. Multiple element transducers include linear phased arrays pulsed in groups, annular phased arrays, and two-dimensional matrix phased arrays.
In the preferred embodiment a mechanical sector scanner is used to produce the signals to be processed. In this scanner an ultrasonic transducer (a piezoelectric element) is mounted and motor driven through a suitable mechanical arrangement. The drive arrangement moves the transducer with an arc scanning motion. During this process, the transducer is pulsed with high voltage spikes at selected pulse repetition rates. The voltage spikes cause the piezoelectric element to mechanically ring thereby emitting very high frequency sound waves. These ultrasonic waves impinge upon the structure within the body, and when a difference of acoustic impedance exists, are partially reflected back to the transducer element. In the interval between pulses, the transducer element acts as a receiver. The reflected energy causes the transducer element to mechanically vibrate and the element generates an electrical signal. This signal is amplified and processed so that it can be displayed as a sector scan on a cathode ray tube.
In one approach, the mechanical driving arrangement not only drives the probe but also provides an electrical output analogous to transducer position by the use of position sensing means such as a potentiometer which translates position information into electrical energy. The electrical signal is processed and utilized to create horizontal and vertical signals which, along with the returning ultrasonic impulses, are used to create an X-Y display on the cathode ray tube. The resultant image is a representation of the internal organs of the body.
Scan displays on the cathode ray tube can be on the order of a 30°, 90° or 120° scan with a plurality of scan lines each beginning with the application of a pulse to the transducer and each field or scan representing the cross section scanned.
In order for the information displayed on the cathode ray tube monitor to be most effective in use, it is necessary to record these images so that they can later be viewed and compared. The scan image appearing on a cathode ray tube in real time is continuously changing, thereby making comparisons between images and/or measurements difficult.
In application to the field of cardiology, a desirable feature of ultrasonic scanning systems would be to provide a simultaneous display of successive frames of sector data acquired during the same cardiac cycle--for instance, the sector images occurring during early diastole, mid-diastole, late diastole, early systole, mid-systole, late systole.
One prior art approach for recording a sector image is to use an instant camera, which obviates the possibility of recording consecutive sector images (unless a multiframe camera is used). Another approach has been to use a movie camera or video tape recorder which provides closely spaced pictures.
In other prior art approaches, a strip chart recorder provides in hard copy form a readout of what is known as an intensity-modulated M-mode display. The recorder records on strip chart paper ultrasonic echo information as a function of time. Such strip chart readouts are particularly valuable in the study of motion patterns of moving structures within the heart.
It is desirable to provide apparatus for printing multiple sector images in hard copy form, such as those sector images occurring during one cardiac cycle, so that the attending physician can have at hand a "cardiac image profile" of sector data. Prior art systems have not had the capability of providing a hard copy of multiple sector scans taken closely spaced in time. Additionally, it is desirable to provide apparatus for displaying physiological parameters such as the electrocardiogram, phonocardiogram, blood pressure and pulse to further assist a physician in his anaylsis.
It would also be desirable to provide apparatus that could provide particular sector image displays on a cathode ray tube--a soft copy form of the display--thereby giving an attending physician the choice of selecting which images to output to the hard copy device.
Additionally, it would be desirable to incorporate digital techniques to enhance the sector image. One problem in the prior art occurs with the displaying of the scan lines themselves on a cathode ray tube along with the desired image information.
The appearance of the scan lines distracts the physician from the real information content of the image. A desirable objective would be to provide a digital processor which eliminates the appearance of noticeable scan lines.
In view of the above background, it is an object of the present invention to provide enhanced multiple-sector hard copy images of the heart and other body organs.
SUMMARY AND OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to apparatus for providing multiple sector image displays in hard copy or soft copy form.
In one embodiment, the apparatus provides multiple sector image displays synchronized relative to a predetermined point along a patient's physiological event such as the occurrence of the R-wave from an electrocardiogram waveform. The apparatus includes means for specifying selected ones of the sector images relative to the predetermined point. However,the apparatus does not require a physiological event for proper operation. For example, the apparatus could be continuously sampling input data without relying upon physiological event.
The apparatus also includes an input controller for digitizing input data representing sector images of a patient occurring during one or more cardiac cycles. Storage means are included for storing the digitized data and processor means are provided for controlling the digitizing and storing of the sector data and for enhancing the digitized images. Display means are provided for displaying the enhanced data thereby representing one or more sector images. The display means could be a strip chart recorder or any other hard copy recorder for displaying the sector images in hard copy form, or a cathode ray tube display for displaying the sector images in soft copy form, or both. In a preferred embodiment, the hard copy is displayed on the same strip chart recorder commonly used for M-mode studies (for economical reasons). However, the image could be reproduced photographically or electrostatically just as well.
In accordance with the above summary, the present invention achieves the objective of providing enhanced sector images of the heart and other body organs.
It is another objective of the present invention to allow recording of high quality sector images to be displayed simultaneously with a patient's physiological parameters such as EKG, pulse, phonocardiogram, blood pressure or other parameters. The dimensional accuracy should be sufficient that numerical measurements needed for diagnosis can be scaled from the hard copy output.
These and other objects and features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
FIG. 1 depicts a sector image appearing on a cathode ray tube for a wide angle probe.
FIG. 2 depicts a sector image appearing on a cathode ray tube for a 30° probe.
FIG. 3 depicts a portion of a front panel of one embodiment of the present invention for selecting specified sector images synchronized to the R-wave detection of a patient's electrocardiogram waveform.
FIG. 4 depicts physiological parameter waveforms and sector images printed on strip chart paper in accordance with the present invention.
FIG. 5 depicts a block diagram representation of one embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Referring to FIGS. 1 and 2, typical sector images provided by prior art apparatus are depicted for a wide angle probe and for a 30° probe, respectively. As previously described, the techniques of producing sector images such as in FIGS. 1 and 2 are well known in the art. One particular system for forming a sector display is shown and described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,034,744. The images of FIGS. 1 and 2 are formed on scan lines 17, 18 respectively, which represent the direction of the reflected ultrasonic energy. The image is formed by controlling the intensity of the display along the lines to show the intensity of the reflected energy.
In one embodiment of the present invention, the selection of the sectors is synchronized to a patient's electrocardiogram (EKG). Waveform 10 as depicted in FIG. 3 is a typical EKG inscribed on the front panel as an aid to a physician in setting the selection knobs 11. The sectors are selected by controls on front panel such as illustrated in FIG. 3. The controls are typically slide potentiometers for selecting the six sectors to be displayed relative to R-wave detection. Selection knobs 11 are slidably adjustable along frame selection rods 12 for selecting the desired sector images in terms of percentage delay from one R-wave detection to the next. However, it is to be understood that the apparatus is not dependent upon a patient's physiological event such as an EKG waveform. The apparatus, for example, could be continuously sampling input data without reliance upon a patient's physiological event.
The repetitive EKG waveform 10 includes P, Q, R, S and T waves which occur during a typical cardiac cycle. The occurrence of the R-wave, which is a highly positive pulse compared to the P, Q, S and T waves, is a convenient synchronization point for initiating selection of sector images to be displayed.
In one embodiment of the invention, up to six different sector images can be displayed; however, conceptually any number of sector images can be chosen, depending upon hardware restriction requirements. In order to provide multiple sector displays in hard or soft copy form, the apparatus must be capable of storing input data representing the sector images because multiple sectors presently cannot economically be enhanced and displayed in real time.
Referring now to FIG. 4, there is shown a representation of one type of printout in accordance with the present invention. In this embodiment of the invention a strip chart recorder is utilized for displaying the sectors. A patient's name and I.D. number together with the date and time can be displayed on the strip chart paper. Physiological parameters which can be displayed on the strip chart paper are the EKG 13, phonocardiogram 14, pulse 15 and blood pressure 16. Other parameters can be displayed instead of these or in addition as desired.
In FIG. 4, the sector selection positions 1-6 are shown with sector 1 shown occurring at R-wave detection and sectors 2-6 sequentially occurring thereafter. The selected sectors can be any sector images occurring during the cardiac cycle between successive R-wave detections.
In FIG. 4, a transition display of sector images in hard copy form is shown with six sector respresentations depicted. The sector displays are numbered sequentially in clockwise direction from sector 1-2-3-4-5-6-1 and correspond to the sector selection positions shown on EKG waveform 13. The transition display provides easier comparison for successive cardiac sector images. For example, sector 3 is easily compared with sector 4, sector 4 with sector 5, sector 6 with sector 1. A physician is thereby provided with a "cardiac image profile" during one cardiac cycle.
Referring now to FIG. 5, a block diagram depicting one embodiment of the present invention is shown. Input data can be from a video tape recorder in which the analog data has previously been recorded or from ultrasonic units such as SKI's Model EkoSector I (ESI) or Model EkoSector 40 (ES40) which provide analog data. Analog data from an EKG device, and other signals to be described, are also input. An input controller 23 receives the input data representing sector images of a patient for digitizing ones of the sector images thereby representing the images in a digital format. A front panel interface 40 includes a frame select 41 for specifying the particular sector images to be digitized. The digitized data is stored in memory 48. A video processing unit (VPU) 50 controls the digitizing and storing of the input sector data and enhances the digital images by a computation portion of the system microcode. An output controller 70 is connected to receive the enhanced data from the video processing unit 50 for converting the enhanced data to an analog format for connection to a strip chart recorder 81 which displays the multiple sector images of the patient.
Ultrasonic video data on bus 60 from either an ESI or ES40 is input to multiplexer (MUX) 27 and into the front panel interface 40. Data for display on a typical CRT monitor 24 such as Wavetek's Model 2022 is input on bus 85, together with X-Ramp and Y-Ramp data on buses 61, 62. Data on buses 61, 62, 85 are connected to monitor multiplexer 38 in output controller 70 where, under control of typical CRT control circuit 37, video data can be displayed on monitor 24, as will be described. Physiological data on bus 64 from a typical set of biomedical preamplifiers may include signals such as phonocardiogram, blood pressure and pulse.
The strip chart multiplexer 39 in the output controller 70 is used to select between the input strip chart data on bus 86 (which is M-mode) or the data generated by the VPU 50, scan line buffers 71 and 72, and the D/A converter 80. The data is under control of strip chart control circuit 36 and connected to a strip chart recorder 81 such as SKI Model E21 or a dry silver paper recorder.
An 8-bit communications channel 84 is input to port 26 in input controller 23 because a unit such as SKI Model ES40  can transfer parameter and patient I.D. information in digital format directly to the input controller 23 rather than requiring digitizing of that data.
Mode signals on bus 49 from a unit such as SKI's Model ESI are input to mode latch unit 47 in front panel interface 40 to specify M-mode or sector mode operation.
Data input to controller 23 is in the form of ultrasound video data on bus 60, X-Ramp data on bus 61, Y-Ramp data on bus 62, EKG data on bus 63 and other physiological data on bus 64. The data on buses 60-64 are input to multiplexer 27 in controller 23, which also includes an analog to digital converter 28, FIFO buffer 29 and input control logic 30, which provides appropriate control signals on bus 31. In one embodiment, the analog/digital converter 28 is an 8 MHz 8-bit converter. The data actually needs to be digitized only to 3-4 bitsresolution if it were to be displayed directly, but for image enhancement purposes is digitized to 8 bits per sample by converter 28.
The multiplexer 27 switches/multiplexes the appropriate input signals to the digitizer 28 under program control. Selection of particular sectors are selected by frame select 41, which corresponds to the sector selection depicted in FIG. 3.
In FIG. 5, interface 40 also includes an R-sync detect circuit 42 and θ-sync detect circuit 43, which indicates to the processor the beginning of each scan line and field respectively.
The EKG demodulator 44 of interface 40 is utilized for picking off a pure electrocardiogram waveform from the video format. The R-wave detector 45 provides a signal indicating when each R-wave of the electrocardiogram has been detected.
In FIG. 5, the main memory 48 is a 1024×256×8-bit memory for storing the digitized data under control of the video processing unit (VPU) 50 via data bus 32. One feature of this memory is that it is organized by row and column just as is the image data to be processed. This organization speeds accessing in image processing applications.
The VPU 50 controls the operation of the system via data bus 32, address bus 33, and control bus 34, and includes in one embodiment the AMD 2900 series of bit-sliced microprocessors. VPU 50 is a general purpose 16-bit processor with features such as addressing main memory 48 by row and column rather than standard linear organization.
The pipeling register and microprogram PROM 52 stores the system microcode, which in the present embodiment is a series fo instructions incorporating 64-bit microcontrol words. The system microcode for one mode of operation of the system is included in Appendix I. The example provided in Appendix I uses the SKI 30° probe and the EkoSector I as input devices, the Ekoline 21 as the output device, and the algorithm is set to capture a "cardiac profile" as described above.
The algorithms for implementing the operation of the system involve a large number of fixed point multiplications, and therefore a high-speed 16×16 bit multiplier 53 is utilized (such as TRW Model MPY-16).
The shift matrix 67 in FIG. 5 is utilized for dividing by any powers of two up to 215. The multiplier-shifter can be utilized for multiplying fixed point quantities by a fractional quantity.
In FIG. 5, the PROMs 54,55 store constants used in manipulating the operation of the digitized data. External RAM file 57 is a 32×16 bit register for increasing the number of general purpose registers in the system to forty-eight. The arithmetic and logic unit 58, which communicates with the other units via 16-bit input bus 83 and 16-bit result bus 91, contains sixteen general purpose registers which together with the thirty-two registers in RAM file 57 form the forty-eight general purpose registers. ALU 58 could be based on the AMD 2900 series bit-sliced microprocessor chips.
In addition to eliminating the scan lines, the digital processor can enhance the image in a number of other ways. One of these ways is through deconvolution techniques. In a preferred embodiment, only the lateral resolution is enhanced because lateral resolution is inherently poorer than radial resolution. In that embodiment, each lateral arc is Fourier transformed (using a fast Fourier transform algorithm), multiplied by an appodized version of the inverse of the modulation transfer function and inverse transformed back to the spatial domain. The same deconvolution could be performed equivalently by convolution of the original data with an appropriate inverse function entirely in the spatial domain. Also, a wide variety of approximation algorithms could be applied to improve the shape of the effective point spread function.
In application to scanners applied to areas of the body other than the heart, some, but not all, of the elements of this invention are effective. Although timing relative to cardiac events is no longer useful, it is still important in these cases to acquire a frame of data in a short time (to freeze motion), to digitally remove the appearance of scan lines, to improve the resolution through deconvolution techniques, to preview the image on the CRT and to output the enhanced image on a hard copy device if desired. Deconvolution techniques are utilized because input sector data is invariably degraded by the less than ideal beam spread function. Expressed otherwise, the degradation results from convolution of the desired image with the point spread function of the transducer.
In FIG. 5, the output controller 70 contains two 1024×4 bit scan line buffers 71, 72 for storing data from the VPU 50 and main memory 48. Data is written into one buffer while data is read out of the other buffer. The data is read out of buffer 71 or 72 using repeat counter 73. The output controller 70 reads out each scan line four times from the designated buffer 71 or 72 in order to make the lines recorded by the recorder 81 so closely spaced that they are not easily discernable. The output from controller 70 in input to conventional D/A converter 80 and strip chart recorder 81, where it is displayed on strip chart paper. Another recorder that could be utilized is an electrostatic printer/plotter (such as Versatec's) which can accept digital data directly, thereby eliminating the need for converting data to an analog format.
CRT control 37 provides X and Y control data for monitor 24. Control 37 also controls the 4-bit data on bus 78 to digital to analog converter 79 to provide video on monitor 24.
One format of the printout to be presented after data capture and conversion is one in which all six frames of data are printed out two at a time with each sector being approximately 8.7 cm deep by 5 cm (30° probe) as in FIG. 4, or 13.8 cm (wide angle probe) wide. The user can, by an appropriate front panel control selection (not shown), cause any sector to be expanded to double size.
In one embodiment, a user can pick systole or any other event defined as a time delay after R-wave detection in succeeding heart cycles, or obtain a "cardiac image profile" over a single cycle such as early diastole, mid-diastole, late diastole, early systole, mid-systole, and late systole.
The system can acquire data in real time directly from an ultrasonascope, or from a video tape recorder.
The system has digital storage for six frames of ultrasound data where each picture element is represented by 8 bits to maintain sufficient resolution for subsequent digital image enhancement. Any of the six stored and enhanced frames can be instantly viewed in any order on the monitor 24 as determined from selection switches on the front panel. After previewing, any image or all six images can be printed on the video strip chart recorder 81.
The VPU 50 is used to interpolate between data points to provide high quality, high line density sector images. In one embodiment, up to four physiological parameters are displayed on the same hard copy output as the sector images, as depicted in FIG. 4. Sector images synchronized with various points on the EKG waveform are written on a record which also displays the accompanying EKG, pulse phonocardiogram and blood pressure. Also, a patient's identification number, date and time of day are printed out as depicted in FIG. 4.
The output format as depicted in FIG. 4 is for a 30° sector. The format for a wide angle sector is similar but requires a strip of paper approximately twice as long. These formats are chosen so that a 30° record could be a single sheet of paper the size of which is easily inserted into a patient's folder. The wide angle record is folded in the center to fit in a standard-sized patient's folder.
The storage modes for displaying the sectors are as follows:
In a storage strobe control mode, the system utilizes one frame from each cardiac cycle selected. The frame, updated once per cardiac cycle, is refreshed on monitor 24. In this storage mode, the system has two submodes. In one submode, the system stores each strobed frame until the operator hits a foot switch (not shown). This leaves the last six strobed frames in storage. In the other submode, the system stores each strobed frame plus the three before and two after until the operator hits the foot switch, leaving a cluster of six strobe frame "centered" around the last strobed frame in storage.
The system utilizes one of the six slide potentiometers shown in FIG. 3 to determine which frame in the cardiac cycle is to be used to update the frame storage. The selection of which one of the slide potentiometers is active for this purpose is made from a numeric keyboard on the front panel (not shown). Strobe mode can be used to stop the motion of the image. By operating the slide potentiometer of FIG. 3, the physician can move slowly in time relative to the R-wave, either forward or in reverse.
The above described strobe mode is intended to be used only with a device such as SKI's Model EkoSector I, which does not have a strobe mode capability. Other devices, such as SKI's EkoSector 40 l (ES40) which is presently being designed will have this strobe mode design as an integral part of the unit. When the system is operating with the ES40, the ES40 will send the system a synchronizing bit to indicate on which frame it is strobing. The system would have the same two storage modes as described above, but the image displayed on the monitor prior to the operator hitting the foot switch would be that generated by the ES40.
Another mode is to store a cluster in real time, in which the system keeps a rolling record of the last six frames. The operator, upon seeing an interesting occurrence on the real time monitor 24, can hit the foot switch and store the last six frame (approximately 200 msec of data). This mode can be used to compensate for the reaction time of a physician. After freezing the last six frames, he can then review them to find the one he was looking at when he hit the switch, which could be printed on hard copy.
Another mode is programmable sampling system, in which the user obtains the "cardiac image profile" over a single cycle, e.g., early diastole, mid-diastole, late diastole, early systole, mid-systole, late systole.
The physician selects the cardiac cycles to be output in hard copy form by observing the CRT display and activating a foot switch (not shown). It is important to display on paper the data which has appeared on the screen. The alternative, saving a cycle commencing at a particular part of the cycle unrelated to the time of foot switch actuation, would require that some of the sectors saved occur after foot switch actuation. Therefore, the device keeps a rolling record. As each specified frame occurs, it replaces the equivalent frame from the previous cardiac cycle. When the physician actuates the foot switch, this indicates that the system should stop updating frames, which can then be printed out in hard copy form if desired. Depending on where in the cycle the foot switch was actuated, the latest data saved may correspond to the time selected by any one of the six sector position selection controls. The image that the physician has spent time finding using the strobe mode should be one of the six stored. Therefore, the strobed image will take the place of the closest one of the six images selected by the slide pots of FIG. 3. This is true whether the CRT viewing mode is strobe or real time.
Approximately one second after the six stored frames are frozen by any of the storage modes described above, one of the six images is enhanced and then displayed on the monitor 24. In one display mode, the image displayed is the last strobed image. In a strobe mode with a unit such as the ES40, the image displayed is replaced by the enhanced image when it becomes available. In another display mode, such as with an ESI unit, the screen goes blank during computation time and then the last strobed image will be shown enhanced. With real time display, the system will blank the screen during computation and then the last stored image will be shown enhanced.
After automatic selection of one of the frames to be displayed, the system actually enhances all six images before placing the selected enhanced frame on the monitor 24. The operator can then select any one of the six stored and enhanced frames to be viewed on the monitor 24 in any order as determined from selection switches on the front panel. A cycle switch (not shown) causes the six stored enhanced images to cycle on the screen of the mointor 24 once per second, through techniques well known in the art. This is approximately real time when the six images are selected to represent a cardiac cycle.
Referring now to FIG. 5, a sequence of operations for converting data from an ultrasonascope to 30° sector display will be described. The system is also capable of resolution of wider angle sector displays.
As previously mentioned, sector data, while requiring only three or four bits for digitizing into a digital display alone, are digitized to eight bits resolution by converter 28 for image enhancement purposes.
The VPU 50 improves the data displayed in the following ways.
Data are originally obtained in polar coordinates. The VPU 50 converts these data to rectangular coordinates, through techniques well known in the art, for output to the system recorder and also interpolates the data to eliminate the distracting influences of the scan line and the blank areas between those scan lines.
For real time data and for the strobe mode, data routed through the system for display on the monitor is refreshed in the following manner:
For a 30° probe, the system saves 60-70 lines per frame (spaced at unequal angular intervals), interpolates 91 lines spaced equally every 166  degree based upon the stored data and displays the linearized 91 lines every 60th second. Every other field will be rotated 1/6 degree so that the two copies of the field present an interlaced, flicker-free image.
For wide angle probes, such as a probe approximating 81°, the system will store 108 lines per frame and display those lines 60 times/second. Similarly, every other field of 108 lines will be rotated 1/2 a line increment to present a flicker-free image of 216 lines.
The input data and the processed data both contain more dynamic range than can be displayed on either the monitor 24 or the strip chart recorder 81 of FIG. 5. A brightness transfer characteristic (BTC) curve, which is well known in the art, can be used to map 8-bit resolution data to 4-bit resolution data for display. Gamma correction is an important subclass and can be represented as a family of BTC curves. The gamma correction curves could be stored in a PROM for enabling the mapping of the data for display purposes.
The memory 48 is sufficient to store six 30° frames of 70 lines×256 elements/line×8 bits/element, or six wide-angle frames of 108 lines×256 element/line×8 bits/element, or one 120° frame. A portion of storage 48 is also used for storage of samples of the physiological parameters. In one embodiment, total storage capability is 1024 lines×256 element/line33 8 bits/element.
The control of the system and processing of the video information is performed by the VPU 50, which includes the AMD 2900 series devices previously described. The algorithms implemented with the system involve a large number of fixed point multiplications so that the 16×16 bit hardware multiplier 53 is incorporated. Programming is accomplished entirely by microcode incorporating 64 bit microcontrol words. The instruction speeds of the present implementation are as follows:
A. Basic microcycle--200 ns
B. Access to MOS main memory changing row or column only--600 ns
C. Access to MOS main memory changing both row and column--800 ns
D. Square of 16-bit number--600 ns
E. Multiplication of two 16-bit numbers (including loading of both operands and shifting result any number of bits to the right--800 ns
F. ALU instructions--200 ns
G. Most other instructions --400 ns
The output controller 70 is capable of reading out data from the scan line buffers to the monitor 24. Prior to output of a frame of data, the VPU 50 can use a selected brightness transfer characteristic curve (BTC) previously described to convert 8 bit data to 4 bits. It then packs two adjacent lines into one line by placing the first line into the most significant 4 bits and the second line into the least significant 4 bits. The hardware of the output controller will then accept 8 bit data at the rate of which it could be read from main memory and split it into two output buffers. It then reads out first one buffer, then the next into a D/A converter such as converter 80 which will apply Z-modulation to monitor 24. The reason for packing and unpacking is to match the data rate needed by the CRT 24 with the slower information transfer rate of the MOS main memory 48. In CRT output modes, the hardware of the scan line buffers are reorganized into four scan line buffers of 512×4 bits of which only 256 picture elements of each line buffer are used.
The microprogram depicted in Appendix I is organized into three main sections which are data acquisition, computation and scan conversion.
The data acquisition portion of the program includes control of the digitizing of the input data, selection of the particular sectors to be displayed and storing of the raw digitized data in memory 48. During the data acquisition, the desired input sector data on bus 60, such as from a 30° probe, is digitized by input controller 23 in accordance with the frame select signals on bus 25 from front panel interface 40. The particular sectors to be displayed are selected in accordance with the frame select positions of FIG. 3. The input data on buses 60-64 are multiplexed in multiplexer 27 and digitized in converter 28 under control of control logic 30, and the digitized data are stored in main memory 48.
The next processor cycle is the computation portion. During the computation portion, the processor 50 performs the necessary computations upon the digitized data in memory 48 for the particular probe utilized. For example, in a 30° probe, the computation portion inludes a weighted averaging of the raw data scan lines in order to produce new scan lines spaced evenly 0.339° apart from +15.27° to -15.27° (91 ines). This is for the reason that, when using a 30° probe, it is desirable to convert from the natural angular increments (which are irregular) to a linearized set of angular increments. The weighted averages are generated by interpolation between the nearest pair of scan lines from the data stored in memory 48. For all sector sizes, image enhancement is performed on data in the polar coordinate system.
The lateral resolution of the stored data is improved by the following procedure:
Considering the data to be stored in rows corresponding to echoes from a single direction and presuming that adjacent rows correspond to data from different directions with a fixed angular increment from row to row, then select each column of data which represents all data from a single depth into the tissue.
Next, perform deconvolution on the column of data by removing the effects of the beam profile for that depth of tissue (e.g., perform a fast Fourier transform, multiply by a stored inverse in the frequency domain, and perform the inverse transform).
The next step is to write the deconvolved column of data over the original data in main memory.
Continue this procedure until all columns of the sector are so processed.
the scan conversion portion includes reading data stored in the polar coordinate system, computing horizontal lines to be displayed one at a time and loading them into the scan line buffers 71, 72 contained within output controller 70. The controller 70 then accomplishes transfer of the data to recorder 81. Output of the physiological data and patient identification also occurs at this time.
During the scan conversion portion, the enhanced data is converted by the processor 50 between polar coordinates and rectangular coordinates in accordance with well known techniques, utilizing the constants stored in PROM Tables 54, 55. The constants are depicted in Table A and Table B for the respective PROMs 54, 55 of FIG. 5.
The processor eliminates in the hard copy output the spaces between the original number of picture elements stored through interpolation between stored elements. (This process is naturally combined with the necessary scan conversion).
For a CRT display, the processor minimizes the spaces between the original scan lines by refreshing each original or enhanced line more than once and faster than real time, and each time moving it in angle to fill the gaps between the original lines. This is achieved by the processor enhancing the sector data to form an enhanced sector field for each image and interleaving corresponding enhanced scan lines at least twice. As a result, the spaces between the scan lines are reduced.
The output controller 70, under control of processor 50, transfers the enhanced and converted data from the scan line buffers 71, 72 out to the D/A converter 80 and recorder 81 (assuming the enhanced and converted data is to be recorded in hard copy form). The paper feed of recorder 81 is enabled via bus 82 and the physiological and other data such as a patient's I.D. number and time of day, together with the enhanced sector data from buffer 71, 72, is displayed on strip chart paper in a format such as depicted in FIG. 4. Once the selected sector data has been output by procesor 50, the recorder 81 is disabled and the system returns to the data acquisition cycle.

               TABLE A______________________________________7718 7469   7281   7084 6890 6721 6553 6393 6241 60965957 5825   5693   5577 5461 5349 5242 5140 5041 49464854 4766   4681   4599 4519 4443 4369 4297 4228 41614096 4032   3971   3912 3855 3799 3744 3692 3640 35913542 3495   3440   3404 3360 3318 3276 3236 3196 31503120 3084   3048   3013 2978 2945 2912 2860 2849 28182783 2759   2730   2702 2674 2617 2621 2595 2570 25452520 2496   2473   2449 2427 2404 2383 2361 2340 23192299 2279   2250   2240 2221 2202 2184 2166 2149 21312114 2097   2080   2064 2048 2032 2016 2001 1905 19711956 1941   1927   1913 1899 1805 1872 1859 1846 18331820 1807   1795   1703 1771 1759 1747 1736 1724 17131702 1691   1680   1669 1659 1648 1638 1628 1618 16081598 1588   1579   1569 1560 1551 1542 1533 1524 15151506 1497   1489   1481 1472 1464 1456 1448 1440 14321424 1416   1409   1401 1394 1387 1379 1372 1365 13581351 1344   1337   1330 1323 1317 1310 1304 1297 12911285 1278   1272   1266 1260 1254 1248 1242 1236 12301224 1219   1213   1208 1202 1197 1191 1186 1180 11751170 1165   1159   1154 1149 1144 1139 1134 1129 11251120 1115   1110   1106 1101 1096 1092 1087 1083 10781074 1069   1065   1061 1057 1052 1048 1044 1040 10361032 1028   1024   1020 1016 1012 1008 1004 1000 996992  989    985    981  978  974  970  967  963  960956  953    949    946  942  939  936  932  929  926923  919    916    913  910  907  903  900  897  894891  888    885    882  879  876  873  870  868  865862  859    856    853  851  848  845  842  840  837834  832    829    826  824  821  819  816  814  811809  806    804    801  799  796  794  791  789  787784  782    780    777  775  773  771  768  766  764762  759    757    755  753  751  748  746  744  742740  738    736    734  732  730  728  726  724  722720  718    716    714  712  710  708  706  704  702700  699    697    695  693  691  689  688  686  684682  680    679    677  675  673  672  670  668  667665  663    661    660  658  657  655  653  652  650648  647    645    644  642  640  639  637  636  634633  631    630    628  627  625  624  622  621  619618  616    615    613  612  611  609  608  606  605604  602    601    599  598  597  595  594  593  591590  589    587    586  585  583  582  581  579  578577  576    574    573  572  571  569  568  567  566564  563    562    561  560  558  557  556  555  554553  551    550    549  548  547  546  544  543  542541  540    539    538  537  536  534  533  532  531530  529    528    527  526  525  524  523  522  521520  519    518    517  516  515  514  513  512  511510  509    508______________________________________

                                   TABLE B__________________________________________________________________________194 582 970 1358           1746               2135                   2524                       2912                           3301                               36914080    4470   4860       5230           5641               6032                   6424                       6816                           7209                               76027995    8390   8784       9180           9576               9973                   10370                       10768                           11167                               1156711968    12369   12772       13175           13579               13995                   14391                       14798                           15207                               1561616027    16439   16852       17267           17682               18993                   32220__________________________________________________________________________
The constants contained within Table A are depicted according to the inverse of the value of x, for the reason that it is faster to manipulate the necessary data using multiplication rather than division, thus decreasing processing time required to compute y/x. Table B contains the arctan values of y/x.
In summary, then, the present invention provides the following features:
(1) A hard copy of multiple sector scans which can be stored in rapid sequence to capture motion of moving a structure such as the heart. This can be displayed on the same strip chart that is utilized for M-mode purposes.
(2) Elimination of the need for an instant camera for recording a sector image.
(3) Providing capability of capturing a patient's cardiac profile in the same cycle.
(4) Writing of patient's identification number and time of day together with the digitized data and physiological parameters.
(5) A high-resolution hard copy of a single sector scan to be used for slowly moving structures such as the abdominal organs.
(6) A soft copy of a sector scan on a cathode ray tube,
(7) Using digital techniques for image enhancement, particularly with regard to improving the lateral resolution through deconvolution techniques.
(8) Elimination of noticeable scan lines. ##SPC1## ##SPC2##

What is claimed is:
 
1. Apparatus for providing multiple cardiac sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data representing cardiac sector images of a patient occurring during one or more cardiac cycles for digitizing in real time selected ones of said images thereby representing said images in a digital format, front panel interface means for specifying said selected ones of said images occurring during one of said cardiac cycles, storage means for storing in real time the digitized data, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storing of said input data and for enhancing said digital images, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for enhancing said digital images, and means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for converting said enhanced data into a format corresponding to an analog format, output controller means connected to receive the converted enhanced data for converting said enhanced data to an analog format for display, and analog strip chart recorder means connected to receive the enhanced data in said analog format for displaying said multiple sector images thereby representing a cardiac image profile. 

  
2. Apparatus for providing multiple cardiac sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data representing cardiac sector images of a patient occurring during one or more cardiac cycles for digitizing in real time selected ones of said images thereby representing said images in a digital format, front panel interface means for specifying selected ones of said sector images occurring relative to a physiological event of the patent, storage means for storing in real time the digitized data, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storing of said input data and for enhancing said digital images, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for enhancing said digital images, and means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for converting said enhanced data into a format suitable for display, and digital recorder means connected to receive the converted enhanced data for displaying said multiple sector images thereby representing a cardiac image profile. 

  
3. Apparatus for providing multiple cardiac sector image displays together with a patient's physiological parameters comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data representing sector images having a number of scan lines where the images occur as elements on said scan lines and connected to receive other input data representing physiological parameters of a patient occurring during one or more cardiac cycles for digitizing in real time selected ones of said images thereby representing said images in a digital format, front panel interface means for specifying said selected ones of said sector images occurring relative to a physiological event of the patient, storage means for storing in real time the digitized data, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storage of said input data and for enhancing the digitized images, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing said selected ones of said images and said other input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for enhancing said digitized images without said scan lines, and means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for converting said enhanced data into a format suitable for display, monitor means connected to receive the converted enhanced images for displaying selected ones of said enhanced images thereby allowing previewing of said enhanced images, means for specifying selected ones of said enhanced images on said monitor means, and recorder means for displaying in hard copy form said selected enhanced images without said scan lines and for displaying said physiological parameters. 

  
4. Apparatus for continuously refreshing a strobed frame on a cathode ray tube display comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data representing cardiac sector images occurring during one or more cardiac cycles for digitizing in real time selected frames of said sector images where each of said frames occurs as one of said sector images thereby representing said images in a digitized format, means for specifying one of said frames each cardiac cycle as an operator-controlled variable time delay after an identifiable physiological event thereby forming a strobed frame, storage means for storing in real time said strobed frame each cardiac cycle such that each strobed frame is stored in the section of memory containing the previously strobed frame, monitor means for displaying the last stored strobed frame refreshed sufficiently often so as to avoid noticeable flicker, and microprocessor means for controlling the digitizing, storing and refreshing of said strobed images, said microprocessor means inlcuding memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for enhancing said strobed frames, and means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for refreshing said strobed images. 

  
5. Apparatus for providing multiple sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data representing sector images of a patient occurring during one or more cardiac cycles for digitizing in real time selected frames of said sector images where each of said frames occurs as one of said sector images thereby representing said images in a digital format, front panel interface means for specifying the storage of a cluster of said frames, storage means for storing in real time a plurality of frames of data where each new frame is stored in the memory area previously holding the oldest form of data, thereby forming a cluster of stored frames, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storing of said input data, and for enhancing said digital images, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for enhancing said digital images, control means for stopping the storage of new frames thereby freezing a cluster of frames occurring within a predetermined interval of time, monitor means for displaying one of the clustered frames, and means for selecting one or more of said stored and enhanced frames displayed on said monitor means to be output in hard copy form. 

  
6. Apparatus for providing multiple sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data representing a patient's cardiac sector images occurring during one or more cardiac cycles for digitizing in real time selected frames of said sector images where each of said frames occurs as one of said sector images thereby representing said images in a digital format, means for strobing selected ones of said frames during said cardiac cycles based on a variable delay after an identifiable physiological event, storage means for storing in real time each strobed frame and for storing in real time a cluster of frames around said strobed frame, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storing of said input data and for enhancing said digital images, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for controlling the strobing of said selected ones of said frames, means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for controlling the stopping of the storage of said new clusters, and means responsive to a fourth portion of said stored program for enhancing said digital images, control means for stopping the storage of new clusters thereby freezing a cluster of frames ocurring within a period of time including the occurrence of the strobed frame, monitor means for displaying selected ones of said cluster of frames in soft copy form, and recorder means for recording selected ones of said enhanced frames in hard copy form. 

  
7. Apparatus for providing multiple cardiac sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data representing cardiac sector images of a patient occurring during one or more cardiac cycles for digitizing in real time selected ones of said images thereby representing said images in a digital format, front panel interface means for specifying said selected ones of said images, means for strobing in real time selected ones of said frames during said cardiac cycles based on a variable delay after the R-wave of an electrocardiogram, storage means for storing in real time each strobed frame once each cardiac cycle such that each new strobed frame is stored in the section of memory previously containing the oldest strobed frame, control means for stopping the storage of new sectors, thereby freezing the last several strobed frames in memory, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storing of said input data and enhancing said digital images, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for controlling the strobing of said selected ones of said frames, means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for controlling the displaying of said images, and means responsive to a fourth portion of said stored program for controlling the display of said selected enhanced images, monitor means connected to receive said input data for displaying said images in soft copy form thereby permitting previewing of said images, and means for displaying the selected enhanced images in hard copy form. 

  
8. Apparatus for providing multiple sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data in polar coordinates representing sector images of a patient for digitizing in real time selected frames of said sector images thereby representing said images in a digital format, front panel interface means for specifying said selected frames, storage means for storing in real time said selected frames, monitor means connected to display said input data representing sector images, means for specifying selected ones of said displayed frames, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storing of said input data, for enhancing said digital images, and for converting in real time said polar coordinates to rectangular coordinates, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing of said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for enhancing said digital images, means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for converting said polar coordinates to rectangular coordinates, and recorder means connected to receive the converted enhanced data for displaying said selected enhanced images in hard copy form. 

  
9. Apparatus for providing multiple sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data in polar coordinates representing sector images of a patient for digitizing in real time selected frames of said sector images thereby representing said images in a digital format, front panel interface means for specifying said selected frames, storage means for storing in real time said selected frames, monitor means connected to display said input data representing sector images, means for specifying selected ones of said displayed frames, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storing of said input data, for enhancing said digital images, and for converting in real time said polar coordinates to rectangular coordinates, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing of said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for enhancing said digital images, and means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for converting said polar coordinates to rectangular coordinates, and means responsive to a fourth portion of said stored program for controlling the display of said enhanced data, and M-mode video strip chart recorder means connected to receive the enhanced data for displaying said selected enhanced images in hard copy form on the same recorder means that is utilized for M-mode recordings. 

  
10. Apparatus for providing one or more sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data in two dimensional format representing one or more sector images for digitizing in real time selected frames of said sector images where each of said frames occurs as one of said sector images thereby representing said images in a digitized format, monitor means connected to receive said input data for displaying said sector images in soft copy form thereby allowing previewing of said images, front panel interface means for specifying said selected frames, storage means for storing in real time said selected frames by row and column corresponding to said two dimensional format thereby eliminating the need for processing time to compute addresses for a conventional one dimensional memory when processing two dimensional data, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing of said input data, for storing and accessing in real time said input data by row and column and for enhancing said digital images, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing of said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for storing and accessing of said input data by row and column, means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for enhancing of said digitial images, means responsive to a fourth portion of said stored program for controlling the display of said sector images, and display means connected to receive said selected frames for displaying said multiple sector images. 

  
11. Apparatus for providing high-resolution abdominal sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data in polar coordinates representing sector images having a number of scan lines for digitizing selected images thereby representing said images in a digital format, storage means for storing in real time at least one frame of the digitized data, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storing of said input data and for improving the resolution of the data through deconvolution processing, and for converting in real time the data from said polar coordinates to rectangular coordinates, and for interpolating in real time between data points so that the original scan lines are not apparent in the output format, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing of said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program improving the resolution of said input data through deconvolution processing, means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for converting said polar coordinates to rectangular coordinates, means responsive to a fourth portion of said stored program for interpolating between data points so that the original scan lines are not apparent in the output format, and recorder means connected to receive the processed data for displaying said processed data in hard copy form. 

  
12. Apparatus for providing multiple sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data representing sector images having a number of scan lines where the images occur as elements on said scan lines for digitizing in real time selected ones of said images thereby representing said images in a digital format, front panel interface means for specifying said selected ones of said sector images, storage means for storing in real time the digitized elements, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storage of said input data and for generating in real time a number of elements, greater then the number of the stored elements by interpolating between said stored elements thereby eliminating spaces between said scan lines and enhancing the digitized images, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing of said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for controlling the generation of said number of elements, and means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for controlling the display of said selected enhanced images, and recorder means for displaying in hard copy form said selected enhanced images. 

  
13. Apparatus for providing one or more sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input data representing ultrasonic echo sector images of a patient for digitizing in real dime selected frames of said sector images where each of said frames occurs as one of said sector images thereby representing said images in a digital format, front panel interface means for specifying said selected ones of said sector frames, storage means for storing in real time the digitized sector data in rows corresponding to echoes from a single direction where adjacent rows of sector data correspond to sector data from different directions with angular increments from row to row, thereby forming a number of columns of data representing all of the data from a single depth into the tissue, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storing of said input data for selecting data from said columns where each column represents sector data from a single depth of scanning, for deconvolving each column of data thereby enhancing the data, and for writing the enhanced data into said storage means, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing of said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for selecting data from said columns, means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for deconvolving each column, and means responsive to a fourth portion of said stored program for writing said enhanced data, and recorder means connected to receive said selected frames for displaying said enhanced images. 

  
14. Apparatus for providing one or more sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data representing sector frames having a first number of scan lines where the frames occur as elements on said scan lines for digitizing in real time selected ones of said frames thereby representing said frames in a digital format, front panel interface means for specifying said selected ones of said sector frames, storage means for storing in real time the digitized data, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storage of said input data, for enhancing the digitized frames thereby forming an enhanced sector image for each of said sector frames, where each of said frames includes a number of scan lines corresponding to said first number, and for refreshing said scan lines on monitor means faster than in real time so that the entire frame of stored data can be written on the monitor means at least twice during the time taken to acquire the data in real time by interleaving successive refreshes of the frame of data on the monitor means thereby reducing spaces between the stored scan lines, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing of said input data, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for enhancing said digitized frames, means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for refreshing said scan lines on said monitor means faster than in real time, means responsive to a fourth portion of said stored program for controlling the display of said selected enhanced images, and monitor means for displaying the selected enhanced images. 

  
15. Apparatus for providing multiple cardiac sector image displays comprising:input controller means connected to receive input ultrasonic echo data representing cardiac sector images of a patient occurring during one or more cardiac cycles for digitizing in real time selected frames of said sector images where each of said frames occurs as one of said sector images thereby representing said images in a digital format, means for specifying said selected frames, storage means for storing in real time said selected frames each cardiac cycle, microprocessor means for controlling in real time the digitizing and storing of said input data and for enhancing said digital images, said microprocessor means including memory means for storing a predetermined program of instructions, means responsive to a first portion of said stored program for digitizing and storing of said selected frames, means responsive to a second portion of said stored program for enhancing said selected digital images, means responsive to a third portion of said stored program for controlling the display of said enhanced images, means responsive to a fourth portion of said stored program for controlling the cyclic display of said enhanced images, monitor means for displaying said enhanced images, and cycle switch means for cycling sequentially the stored enhanced images on said monitor means thereby representing a cardiac cycle.