Source: [US6811399B2](https://patents.google.com/patent/US6811399B2)

# [US6811399B2](US6811399B2.md) - [US6811399B2](US6811399B2.md) - Torque lock for ultrasonic swivelable inserts and method

## Details

* Date: 2001-07-27
* Inventor: Hu Friedy Manufacturing Co LLC
* Beneficiary: Anisur Mithu Rahman, Shu Chen, Patricia H. Parker

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * [US2442033A](US2442033A.md)
 * [US2705838A](US2705838A.md)
 * [US2874470A](US2874470A.md)
 * USRE25033E
 * [US3058218A](US3058218A.md)
 * US3075288A
 * US3076904A
 * US3124878A
 * [US3213537A](US3213537A.md)
 * [US3256604A](US3256604A.md)
 * [US3368280A](US3368280A.md)
 * [US3375583A](US3375583A.md)
 * [US3488851A](US3488851A.md)
 * [US3518766A](US3518766A.md)
 * [US3522801A](US3522801A.md)
 * [US3526036A](US3526036A.md)
 * [US3589363A](US3589363A.md)
 * [US3589012A](US3589012A.md)
 * [US3593425A](US3593425A.md)
 * US3636947A
 * [US3645255A](US3645255A.md)
 * [US3654502A](US3654502A.md)
 * [US3703037A](US3703037A.md)
 * US3778903A
 * US3805787A
 * [US3809977A](US3809977A.md)
 * US3811190A
 * US3823477A
 * US3886560A
 * [US3930173A](US3930173A.md)
 * US3942392A
 * US3986263A
 * US4038571A
 * US4040311A
 * US4051337A
 * [US4110908A](US4110908A.md)
 * US4168447A
 * US4169984A
 * US4177564A
 * DE2107526C3
 * US4213243A
 * US4249901A
 * [USRE30536E](USRE30536E.md)
 * US4260382A
 * US4260380A
 * US4281987A
 * US4283174A
 * US4283175A
 * US4303393A
 * [US4303392A](US4303392A.md)
 * US4315742A
 * US4330274A
 * US4332558A
 * US4370131A
 * USD269122S
 * US4406284A
 * US4417578A
 * US4431412A
 * USRE31537E
 * US4484892A
 * [US4492574A](US4492574A.md)
 * US4501558A
 * US4501555A
 * US4521189A
 * US4553938A
 * US4578033A
 * [US4589847A](US4589847A.md)
 * US4614498A
 * US4634376A
 * US4676749A
 * US4682949A
 * EP0247916A1
 * US4735200A
 * US4808109A
 * US4818229A
 * [US4820152A](US4820152A.md)
 * US4877399A
 * EP0366624A2
 * US4928675A
 * US4961698A
 * US4975058A
 * US4978297A
 * US5039304A
 * US5040978A
 * US5062797A
 * US5088924A
 * US5125837A
 * US5131844A
 * US5145370A
 * US5211531A
 * US5230621A
 * US5252064A
 * US5311632A
 * US5320530A
 * US5346489A
 * US5378150A
 * US5382162A
 * [US5395240A](US5395240A.md)
 * [US5419703A](US5419703A.md)
 * US5467779A
 * US5501596A
 * US5634790A
 * US5636988A
 * US5653643A
 * USRE35712E
 * US5716210A
 * US5743731A
 * US5743718A
 * US5762541A
 * [US5776155A](US5776155A.md)
 * [US5775901A](US5775901A.md)
 * US5795167A
 * US5810588A
 * US5833457A
 * US5836762A
 * USD411726S
 * US5967784A
 * US5967779A
 * US6030212A
 * US6062858A
 * USRE36699E
 * US6106289A
 * US6106288A
 * US6123268A
 * US6159175A
 * US6168433B1
 * US6179617B1
 * US6178910B1
 * US6186783B1
 * US6214023B1
 * WO2001045581A1
 * US6328566B1
 * EP1180350A1
### Forward
 * US20080096163A1
 * US7955079B2
 * US20110143303A1
 * USD674487S1
 * USD687552S1
 * US8558430B2
 * US8631532B2
 * US9099939B2
 * US9154025B2
 * US9226808B2
 * US9707050B2
 * US10226271B2
 * US10470857B2
## Abstract

Abstract

An ultrasonic insert insertable into a handpiece for carrying out a dental treatment is easily rotatable by a practitioner with only two fingers. The body of the insert is clamped via a torque lock element which carries a plurality of radially extending barbs which lock a handle thereto. The handle is locked to the torque lock element and is not movable relative thereto either axially or rotatably.



An ultrasonic insert insertable into a handpiece for carrying out a dental treatment is easily rotatable by a practitioner with only two fingers. The body of the insert is clamped via a torque lock element which carries a plurality of radially extending barbs which lock a handle thereto. The handle is locked to the torque lock element and is not movable relative thereto either axially or rotatably.

This Utility Application claims the benefit of Provisional Application Ser. No. 60/336,922, filed Dec. 3, 2001 and is a continuation-in-part of Ser. No. 09/917,101, filed Jul. 27, 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,716,028, entitled “Ultrasonic Swivel Insert”.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The invention pertains to ultrasonic inserts of a type used in medical/dental treatments. More particularly, the invention pertains to such inserts with enhanced operating efficiency and user comfort.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Ultrasonic scalers are used in dental offices for de-plaqueing teeth. Unlike manual scalers, these instruments are powered i.e., the tip of the instrument vibrates at an ultrasonic frequency allowing quick and easy debridement. The operator has less hand fatigue as most of the energy for removing the plaque comes from the generator that powers the instrument. The dental practitioner need only lightly touch the tip of the instrument at an angle to the tooth surface to dislodge the plaque.
Known ultrasonic scalers, such as scaler 10 illustrated in FIG. 1A, have a handpiece 12 a coupled at one end 12 a-1 to a cable 12 b which includes a hose, to provide a fluid, and conductors to provide electrical energy. The other end of the cable 12 b terminates at an electrical generator and fluid source 12 c. One type of fluid is water.
The other end of the handpiece 12 a-2 is hollow and is intended to receive a replaceable insert 14 with a transducer 14 a (magnetostrictive or piezoelectric) carried on the insert. The transducer 14 a extends from a proximal end of the insert 14 into the hollow body 12 a-2. An ultrasonically vibrated tip 14 b extends from a distal end of the insert. One such insert has been disclosed and claimed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,775,901, entitled “Insert For Ultrasonic Scaler”, incorporated herein by reference.
Known magnetostrictive ultrasonic inserts function by exciting a stack of thin nickel plates at a frequency equal to the stack's natural frequency. The excitation is induced through an electrical generator in unit 12 c, which supplies a current to a coil embedded in the handpiece. When the insert 14 is placed in the handpiece 12 a and the frequency generator 12 c is powered on, the operator tunes the generator (manual tuning) until it reaches the resonance frequency i.e., attains the natural frequency of the insert. Alternately, auto-tune units automatically lock on the insert resonance frequency once powered on. At this time, the stack starts vibrating. This vibration of the stack is amplified and transmitted to the tip 12 b by means of a connecting body or concentrator. The connecting body is made from material that provides good sound transmission efficiency.
While the insert 14 is operational, fluid is pumped through the cable-generator system 12 b, c and through the handpiece 12 a to the tip 14 b of the insert 14. The vibrating tip 14 b breaks the fluid stream into a spray. The spray not only keeps the tip cool, but also keeps the surface of the tooth cool and provides protection against tissue damage.
The fluid path through the handpiece 12 a needs to be sealed such that no leakage occurs until the fluid stream exits from the insert at the very tip through a fluid delivery channel. Typically, ultrasonic inserts do not have any moving parts other than the minuscule displacement of the nickel stack, the connecting body or the tip.
Known magnetostrictive dental scaling ultrasonic inserts used in the U.S.A. are designed to vibrate at 25 kHz or 30 kHz frequencies. Another system, popular in Europe, uses a piezoelectric transducer.
In using an ultrasonic scaler during a cleaning, the dental practitioner will need to repeatedly re-orient the location of the insert tip 14 b with respect to tooth surface depending on which tooth of the mouth is being cleaned. In making this angular adjustment, as illustrated in FIG. 1B, the practitioner will typically take the insert out of the patient's mouth, rotate the insert 14, and tip 14 b, inside the handpiece 12 a locating tip 14 b at a desired angular position. Both hands are used for this rotation as the frictional forces that produce a tight fit of the insert 14 in handpiece 12 a must be overcome. During a typical treatment, the process of reorienting the tip must be carried out numerous times. This is not only time consuming but also interrupts the ease and smooth flow of work.
In areas of the mouth where the practitioner chooses not to rotate the insert 14, the practitioner's wrist must be twisted sufficiently to achieve the same function. This twisting action is opposed by the resistance of the cable 12 b, the fluid supply hose and power conductors, which is attached to the handpiece 12 a.  
There continues to be a need for ultrasonic scalers which are more comfortable and less fatiguing to use than known instruments. Preferably, any improvements will be downwardly compatible with the numerous generators and handpieces that are already present in dental offices.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
FIG. 1A illustrates a prior art ultrasonic scaler having an insert and handpiece;
FIG. 1B illustrates one aspect of usage of the prior art insert/handpiece combination of FIG. 1A;
FIG. 2A illustrates an insert in accordance with the present invention;
FIG. 2B illustrates the insert of FIG. 2A in a handpiece as in FIG. 1A and aspects of usage thereof;
FIGS. 3A, B and C are various views of an ultrasonic insert body in accordance with the present invention;
FIGS. 4A, B, C and D are various views of a snap-fit rotary bearing usable with the body of FIG. 3A;
FIGS. 5A, B, C and D are various views of a torque lock;
FIGS. 6A, B and C are various views of a swivel housing;
FIGS. 7A, B are various views of a cone usable with an insert;
FIGS. 8A, B and C illustrate steps in assembling an insert;
FIG. 9A is a side sectional view of an insert illustrating the relationship of various elements assembled in the steps of FIGS. 8A, B and C;
FIG. 9B is an enlarged sectional view illustrating aspects of a section of FIG. 9A;
FIG. 10A is a side sectional view of a handpiece carrying a snap-on adaptor;
FIG. 10B is an enlarged partial side view of the handpiece and adaptor of FIG. 10A with a conventional ultrasonic insert positioned therein;
FIG. 10C is an over-all view of an insert as in FIG. 1 combined with an adaptor as in FIG. 10A;
FIG. 11A is an enlarged side view of an alternate embodiment of an insert;
FIG. 11B is an enlarged partial side sectional view of the insert of FIG. 11A inserted into a handpiece of an ultrasonic scaling unit, generally of a type illustrated in FIG. 1;
FIG. 11C is a side view of a portion of the handpiece of FIG. 1B;
FIG. 11D is a side view of a collar threadable onto the handpiece of FIG. 11B;
FIGS. 12A, B are top and side views of a preferred form of an ultrasonic transducer;
FIG. 12C is an end view of the transducer of FIG. 12B;
FIGS. 13A-F taken together illustrate a torque lock in accordance with the invention;
FIGS. 14A-C taken together illustrate a sleeve usable with the torque lock of FIGS. 13A-F;
FIGS. 15A-E taken together illustrate a cone usable with an insert as in FIG. 2A; and
FIG. 16 is a side sectional view of an insert in accordance with the invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
While this invention is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms, there are shown in the drawing and will be described herein in detail specific embodiments thereof with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments illustrated.
A rotatable ultrasonic insert has a body section which carries a bearing for rotatably engaging an ultrasonic handpiece. The body is rotatable, about an axial centerline.
Rotation can be effected by applying a force only to the insert. In response, the insert rotates but the handpiece does not.
Preferably, a swivel feature is located at the gripping region of the insert, i.e., close to the treatment tip, where the practitioner would typically position his or her fingers. The swivel allows the insert to rotate 360 degrees. The swivel also allows rotation of the gripping region and tip without having to rotate the handpiece and/or the supply cord.
A torque lock is connected to the insert. The torque lock carries an exterior peripheral surface bounded by first and second surfaces. The surfaces protrude from the torque lock generally laterally relative to a center line thereof. At least a position of one of the surfaces is laterally deflectable.
A handle slidably engages the torque lock. As the handle slides onto the torque lock, it laterally deflects the at least one surface as the handle moves to a position where it is trapped between the two surfaces.
In another aspect of the invention, an adaptor has an external periphery which can be slidably and releasibly inserted into the opening in the handpiece. A standard ultrasonic insert is inserted through the adaptor into the handpiece. The insert can then be rotated relative to the handpiece with a rotational force applied only thereto. Alternatively, the adaptor can be snap fitted onto an exterior periphery of a handpiece.
FIG. 2A illustrates an insert 20 in accordance with the present invention. The insert 20 includes a transducer 20 a which is illustrated as a magnetostrictive transducer. Alternately, it could be a piezoelectric ultrasonic transducer without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.
The transducer is rigidly coupled to an elongated body 20 b which is covered in part by a cylindrical, elongated deformable elastomeric grip 20 c. The grip 20 c terminates in a cone 20 d which is positioned between the grip 20 c and operative treatment applying tip 20 e.  
The insert 20 operates in accordance with the principals of known ultrasonic dental instruments as discussed above relative to FIG. 1A. However, insert 20 also carries a rotary bearing 24 which exhibits a hollow cylindrical stem section 24 a which defines a cylindrical region 24 b which receives a sealing O-ring 24 c. The hollow member 24 a terminates at a disc 24 d of larger diameter. A planar surface 24 d-1 of disk 24 is adjacent to stem 24 a  
As discussed subsequently, when installed on the elongated body 20 b, the rotary bearing member 24 is rotatable relative to the body 20 b, gripping member 20 c and tip 20 e. Hence, if the member 24 is fixed, the body 20 b, gripping member 20 c and tip 20 e are readily rotatable therein.
FIG. 2B illustrates the standard ultrasonic handpiece 12 a, cable 12 b and generator 12 c, discussed above, of a type found in dental offices. The insert 20 is slidably receivable, in a direction 16 a, in the hollow end 12 a-2 of the handpiece 12 a.  
The cylindrical stem 24 a of the rotary bearing 24 slides into the hollow handpiece 12 a. The O-ring 24 c slidably engages the interior periphery of the handpiece 12 a providing a fluid seal and reliably engaging the insert 20 with the handpiece 12 a.  
When installed in the handpiece 12 a, as illustrated in FIG. 2B, insert 20 can be rotated relative to handpiece 12 a with rotary forces applied to the deformable gripping member 20 c for purposes of orienting the tip 20 e relative to a tooth being de-plaqued. As illustrated in FIG. 2B, the practitioner need not restrain the handpiece 12 a while rotating the insert 20. Additionally, insert 20 is relatively rotatable relative to handpiece 12 a using only two of the practitioner's fingers. Thus, the orientation of the tip 20 e can be continuously altered with only two of the practitioner's fingers, requiring only one hand, while the scaling operation proceeds. This will reduce operator fatigue and substantially shorten the time necessary for the scaling process. The expected torque needed to rotate insert 20 preferably will be less than 2.0 inch-oz.
When the practitioner has concluded the de-plaqueing process, the insert 20 can be removed from the handpiece by pulling it axially from the handpiece in a direction 16 b and sterilized. The same insert or a different insert can then be subsequently inserted into handpiece 12 a to treat the next patient. It will be understood that the present invention is applicable to ultrasonic inserts which utilize either magnetostrictive or piezoelectric transducers without limitation.
FIGS. 3A, 3B, 3C illustrate different views of the body 20 b of the insert 20. As illustrated in FIGS. 3A and 3B, body portion 20 b is attached to a first end 20 a-1 of transducer 20 a as would be understood by those of skill in the art. An elongated cylindrical extension 20 b-1 extends axially from transducer 20 a toward tip 20 e.  
The elongated cylindrical metal member 20 b-1, as would be known to those of skill in the art, is caused to vibrate axially, in response to electromagnetic signals received at transducer 20 a from handpiece 12 a. The signals are produced by generator 12 c. This axial ultrasonic vibration is in turn coupled to the tip 20 e and used for effecting de-plaqueing of the subject tooth T, in a spray of fluid M, illustrated in phantom in FIG. 3C.
A pair of notches 20 b-2, 20 b-3 is formed on elongated body member 20 b-1 in a region of substantially zero axial ultrasonic vibration. While a pair of notches 20 b-2, -3 has been illustrated in FIG. 3B, it will be understood that a single notch, or three notches could be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Additionally, the exact shape of the generally rectangular notches 20 b-2, -3 is not a limitation of the present invention.
An interior or base plane 20 b-2′, 20 b-3′ of each notch 20 b-2, -3 is parallel to a plane through the central axis of tip 20 e. This notch/tip configuration facilitates energy transmission along insert 20 without increasing the risk of a mechanical fracture due to potential fatigue stress.
An elongated fluid flow slot 20 b-4 extends axially in the region where the body 20 b-1 interfaces with the tip 20 e. As discussed subsequently, fluid for the spray M flows therethrough.
FIGS. 4A, B, C and D illustrate different views and additional details of rotary bearing 24. As illustrated therein, the cylindrical stem 24 a is hollow and defines an interior peripheral surface 24 e which is adjacent to the elongated body portion 20 b, see FIG. 2A. The bearing member 24 carries a second O-ring 24 c-1 in a cylindrical region 24 d-2 which is adjacent to a plurality of radially disposed spring-loaded fingers indicated generally at 24 g.  
The fingers 24 g each terminate at a barbed free end, such as 24 g-1, -2, -3 with preferably four such fingers disposed radially about the annular surface 24 d-2. Neither the number nor the exact shape of the ends 24 g-1, -2 . . . -n are limitations of the present invention. As discussed in more detail subsequently, the fingers 24 g-1, -2, -3, -4 are deflectable radially inward during assembly and are biased radially outwardly to return to their undeflected condition, illustrated in FIGS. 4A, 4B.
The second O-ring 24 c-1 which is positioned adjacent annular surface 24 d-2 cooperates with O-ring 24 c to provide a sealed fluid flow path between handpiece 12 a and cone 20 d. Cooling fluid flows from handpiece 12 a through aperture 24-1, FIG. 4c, and past the fingers 24 g-1, -2, -3, -4. It will be understood that the number of fingers 24 g is not a limitation of the present invention.
FIGS. 5A-5D illustrate various views of a torque lock 30 which couples a torque due to force applied to deformable gripping member 20 c by the user's fingers to the body 20 b and treatment tip 20 e. The torque lock 30 is preferably molded of a sterilizable thermoplastic which, as discussed below, permits it to deform during assembly without fracturing.
The torque lock 30 has a hollow body section 32 a with an exterior periphery 32 b and an internal circumferential periphery 32 c. The torque lock is molded with a slot 34 a formed in the body 32 a which permits outward radial deformation of sections 34 b and 34 c, adjacent the slot 34 a, as the torque lock 30 is slid onto the elongated body portion 20 b-1. Surfaces 36 a, 36 b slidably engage the notches 20 b-2, -3 of the elongated member 20 b-1. When the notches are so-engaged, the deformable members 34 b, c move radially inwardly to a non-deformed condition. In this state, torque lock 30 is locked to the body 20 b at the notches 20 b-2, -3.
The interaction between the surfaces 36 a, b, in the slots 20 b-2, -3 inhibits both rotation and translation of the torque lock 30 relative to the body member 20 b-1. Hence, rotating the torque lock 30 will also rotate the body 20 b of the insert.
Once the torque lock 30 has been installed on the body member 20 b-1 at the slots 20 b-2, -3, it will be fixedly located at a region of substantially zero axial ultrasonic vibration. This minimizes a build-up of heat between the vibrating body 20 b-1 and the torque lock 30. As will be understood by those of skill in the art, in addition to locating the notches 20 b-2, -3 at a region of minimal axial ultrasonic vibration, preferably centered on the expected nodal point of zero vibration, the cross section of the connecting body portion 20 b-1 through the notches 20 b-2, -3 will have a large enough cross-sectional area to transmit ultrasonic vibrations without constriction.
FIGS. 6A, B, C illustrate various views of a housing 40 which is press fit over torque lock 30 and which slidably and lockingly engages barbed fingers 24 g-1, -2, -3, and -4 of the rotary bearing 24. The housing 40 has an elongated generally cylindrical body 42 a with a smooth exterior periphery 42 b. The body 42 a terminates at an end 42 c adjacent an annular shoulder 42 d.  
The shoulder 42 d in turn has an end surface 42 d-1. When installed, the end surface 42 d-1 is adjacent to and rotates relative to annular surface 24 d-3 of bearing 24.
The annular member 42 d exhibits an internal cylindrical peripheral surface 42 d-2 which traps O-ring 24 c-1 in position, forming a fluid seal with bearing 24 when surface 42 d-1 is positioned adjacent to surface 24 d-3. When so-positioned, the housing 40 can rotate relative to bearing 24 but is not movable axially relative thereto.
When the housing 40 is rotated relative to the bearing 24, the surface 42 d-2 slides over O-ring 24 c-1 without excessive friction thereby enabling a practitioner to rotate the tip 20 e relative to the handpiece 12 a with the use of force applied to elastomeric gripping member 20 c by only two fingers.
The housing 40 has an interior, cylindrical peripheral surface 42 b-1 which surface deflects the barbed fingers 24 g-1, -2, -3, -4 radially inwardly when the housing 40 is slid onto the fingers 24 g. The fingers 24 g, which have been inwardly radially deflected by the surface 42 b-1 engage a cylindrical slot 42 b-2 with a snap fit. The radially compressed fingers 24 g expand outwardly radially and the barbed ends 24 g-1, -2, -3, -4 lock into the slot 42 b-2 precluding axial motion of the housing 40 away from surface 24 d-3 of bearing 24.
As the housing 40 is slidably engaging the barbed fingers 24 g-1, -2, -3, -4 and internal cylindrical peripheral surface 42 b-3 engages exterior cylindrical peripheral surface 32 b of torque lock 30 with a press or interference fit. The press fit between torque lock 30 and housing 40 locks those two parts together precluding either axial linear movement or rotary movement therebetween. The end 42 b of housing 40 carries a plurality of threads 42 b-4.
The snap fit between the housing 40 and the rotary bearing 24, in combination with the O-ring 24 c-1 provide a sealed fluid flow path from inflow periphery 24 e of bearing 24 through outflow end surface 42 b-5 of housing 40. This fluid flow seal, as noted above, precludes fluid leakage. The exterior cylindrical surface 24 g of each of the fingers 24 g rotatably engages the internal cylindrical surface 42 b-1 of the housing 40. This provides a pair of rotatable bearing surfaces which permit smooth two finger rotation of the deformable member 20 c and the treatment tip 20 e. A medically acceptable, sterilizable, lubricant is preferably provided between the bearing surfaces to improve rotational smoothness and further reduce friction and required torque.
FIGS. 7A and 7B are views of cone 20 d which is carried by rotatable housing 40. Cone 20 d has an internal flow path 50 a which is sealed by O-ring 50 b. Cone 20 d includes a set of threads 52. Cone 20 d is coupled to housing 40 by the rotatable engagement of threads 42 b-4 of housing 40 and 52 of cone 20 d.  
The O-ring 50 b precludes leakage between an end 50 c and a region of body portion 20 b-1 which extends therethrough. Fluid exits cone 20 d via fluid flow channel 20 b-4 in the body portion 20 b-1. Fluid exits the cone 20 d in the channel 20 b-4 as a stream. The stream of fluid impacts the vibrating tip 20 e and creates a smooth spray pattern M suited for cooling and cleaning tissues. Adhesives, such as epoxy, can be used to permanently attach the cone 20 d to the housing 40.
FIGS. 8A, 8B and 8C illustrate the steps of assembly of the insert 20. Groove 20 b′-1 in body section 20 b′ provides a positive gripping surface usable during assembly by manufacturing fixtures to block axial movement of the insert 20.
As illustrated in FIG. 8A, initial steps of assembly of the insert 20 include sliding rotary bearing member 24 past operative tip 20 e onto body portion 20 b-1. The torque lock 30 is then slid onto the operative element 20 e and forced along the elongated body 20 b-1, which in turn forces elements 34 b, c radially outward until surfaces 36 a, b thereof slidably engage the slots 20 b-2, -3. This slidable engagement with the slots in the body member 20 b locks the torque lock 30 to the body member 20 b and traps the bearing member 24 against a portion 20 b′ of the body 20 b precluding axial movement thereof. The bearing member 24 continues to be rotatable relative to the elongated body portion 20 b.  
As illustrated in FIG. 8B, the housing 40 is then slid onto and past the operative element 20 e and forced onto the rotary bearing 24, thereby radially inwardly deflecting the barbed fingers 24 g-1, -2, -3, -4 and also press fit onto external peripheral surface 32 b of torque lock 30 adjacent to disc 24 d. When seated on the bearing member 24, the inwardly deflected fingers 24 g expand into radial slot 42 b-2, axially locking the housing 40 to the bearing 24 while still permitting relative rotary motion therebetween.
The circular elastomeric gripping member 20 c can be slid onto housing 40 either before or after the cone 20 d is threadably engaged therewith. The gripping region 20 c has an inner diameter which is slightly smaller than the outer diameter of the housing 40. The member 20 c thus elastically attempts to contract around the housing 40 which minimizes unintended slippage of the grip 20 c relative to the housing 40. Member 20 c can also be permanently attached to housing 40 with adhesive.
FIG. 9A illustrates a side sectional view of an assembled insert 20 in accordance with the method of steps of FIGS. 8A, B and C. FIG. 9B is an enlarged side sectional view of a portion of FIG. 9A further illustrating the relationships of the various elements therein.
As will be understood by those of skill in the art, preferably tip 20 c will be formed and heat treated prior to the start of the assembly process illustrated in FIG. 8A. By forming housing 40 as a separate element from core 20 d, the length of each is less than the combined length of 20 d and 40. Hence, each can be independently slid over exemplary curved tip 20 e though the assembled combination 20 d and 40 will not slide over tip 20 e.  
FIG. 10A illustrates a snap-on plastic adaptor 70 which is intended to be used with a standard handpiece, such as the handpiece 12 a. As illustrated in FIG. 10A, handpiece 12 a includes an annular depression 12 c adjacent to open end 12 a-2. The adaptor 70 snap-fits onto the handpiece 12 a at the groove 12 c.  
Adaptor 70 has a body section 72 a which carries an annular locking protrusion 72 b which slidably engages the slot 12 c locking the adaptor 70 thereto. The adaptor 70 also includes a bearing 74 a which is carried in an interior region 74 b of the body 72 a. An O-ring seal 74 c can be positioned adjacent to the bearing 74 a to minimize the likelihood of leakage from fluid flowing through the handpiece 12 a into an insert coupled thereto.
The insert 70 defines a channel 76 a which co-extends with and abuts channel 12 d in handpiece 12 a. The channels 76 a and 12 d receive a standard insert such as the insert 14, which is to be rotatably coupled to handpiece 12 a and to be energized thereby.
FIG. 10B illustrates added details of standard insert 14 coupled to adaptor 70 for rotation relative to handpiece 12 a. In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 10B, the adaptor 70 in combination with handpiece 12 a and insert 14 provide a sealed fluid flow path between the interior peripheral surface 12 b of the handpiece and tip 14 b of the insert. In this configuration, a user can rotate insert 14 relative to handpiece 12 a by applying rotary forces to the grip 14 c in a manner analogous to the way in which rotary forces are applied to the grip 20 c of rotatable insert 20 previously described.
Using insert 70, a standard handpiece, in combination with standard inserts, such as the insert 14, can cost effectively provide improved convenience and comfort for the practitioner. It will be understood, if desired, that the insert 70 could be color coded. The insert 70 can be molded of any sterilizable plastic such a thermoplastic material commercially available and known as polyphenylsulfone. It will also be understood that a plurality of snap-fit fingers, such as the fingers 72 b, can be molded in housing 72 a for purposes of releasibly attaching the adaptor to the handpiece 12 a.  
FIG. 10C is an over-all view of insert 14 coupled to handpiece 12 a via adaptor 70.
FIGS. 11A and 11B illustrate an alternate form of an adaptor 80 usable with a handpiece 82. The adaptor 80 includes a cylindrical body section 80 a which carries a bearing 80 b which could be implemented as a plastic ring bearing. The bearing 80 b is carried in a cylindrical slot 80 c in housing 80 a.  
Housing 80 a also carries an O-ring seal 80 d in a second slot 80 e. Finally, the body 80 a terminates at a plurality of deflectable locking fingers 80 f. The body 80 a is hollow and defines an internal peripheral cylindrical surface 80 g.  
Insert 80 is slidably receivable into handpiece 82 with a snap-fit. The exterior surfaces of the fingers 80 f slidably engage a locking slot 82 a formed in an interior peripheral surface 82 b of the handpiece 82. The interior peripheral surface 82 b also includes a slot 82 c for receipt of the O-ring seal 80 e, and, a slot 82 d which receives the rotary bearing 80 b carried by the insert 80. It will be understood that the O-ring 80 d provides a fluid seal between handpiece 82 and an insert, such as the insert 14 shown in part in phantom, which has been slidably inserted into the adaptor 80 in contact with the internal peripheral cylindrical surface 80 g. When so inserted, the insert 14 can be rotated, along with adaptor 80 relative to the handpiece 82 so as to promote the convenience and comfort of a practitioner. A collar 86 is threadable onto the end of the handpiece 82 to trap the adaptor 80 in place and prevent axial movement thereof.
FIGS. 12A-C illustrate details of a preferred structure of stack 20 a. By impressing a “W” bend 20 a-1 along the length of each member of the stack, as illustrated, stiffness of the stack can be increased. This in turn promotes continued alignment of the stack relative to central axis HP-A, see FIG. 2B, while the insert 20 is being rotated. The improved alignment minimizes the likelihood of the stack 20 a rubbing against internal peripheral surface 12 d during rotation, hence eliminating a possible source of friction and noise.
FIGS. 13A-13F illustrate various details of an alternate torque lock 30′. The torque lock 30′ has a hollow body section 32 a′ with an exterior periphery 32 b′. Torque lock 30′ is molded with a slot 34 a′ formed in the body 32 a′. The slot 34 a′ permits outward radial deformation of sections 34 b′, 34 c′ adjacent to the slot 34 a′ as the torque lock 30′ is slid onto the elongated body portion 20 b-1.
Surfaces 36 a′, 36 b′ slidably engage the notches 20 b-2, -3 of the elongated member 20 b-1. When the notches are so-engaged, the deformable members 34 b′, c′ move radially inwardly to a non-deformed condition. In this state, torque lock 30′ is locked to the body 20 b at the notches 20 b-2′, -3′. The combination of the ends 34 b′, 34 c′ with surfaces 36 a′, b′ in the slots 20 b-2′, -3′ inhibits both rotation and translation of the torque lock 30′ relative to the body member 20 b-1. Hence, rotating the torque lock 30′ will also rotate the body 20 b of the insert.
Once the torque lock 30′ has been installed on the body member 20 b-1 at the slots 20 b-2, -3, it will be permanently located at a region Z of substantially zero axial ultrasonic vibration, best seen in FIG. 16. This minimizes a build up of heat between the vibrating body 20 b-1 and torque lock 30′. As will be understood by those of skill in the art, in addition to locating the notches 20 b-2′, -3′ at a region of minimal axial ultrasonic vibration, preferably centered on the expected nodal point of zero vibration, the cross section of the connecting body portion 20 b-1 through the notches 20 b-2′, -3′ will continue to have a large enough area to transmit ultrasonic vibrations without constriction.
The torque lock 30′ also includes radially deformable collet-like members 30′-1, 30′-2, 30′-3 and 30′-4. The collet-like members are separated by intervening slots 30 a, b, c, d which permit deflectable spring-like action in a radial direction. Two of the collet-like members 30′-1, -3 carry a portion of surface 31-1 which terminates at a flange 31-2 on one side and 31-3 on the other. Two other members 30′-2, -4 are also deflectable laterally. The exterior peripheral surfaces thereof extend to an outer perimeter of flange 31-2 (best seen in FIG. 13D) and prevent rotation of the torque lock 30′ relative to housing 40′.
FIGS. 14A, B, C illustrate various views of a housing 40′ which is press-fit over torque lock 30′ and which in turn slidably and lockingly engages barbed fingers 24 g-1, -2, -3 and -4 of the rotary bearing 24. The housing 40′ has a generally elongated cylindrical body 42′a with a smooth exterior periphery 42′b. The body 42′a terminates at an end 42′c adjacent an annular shoulder 42′d.  
The shoulder 42′d in turn has an end surface 42′d-1. When installed, the end surface 42′d-1 is adjacent to and rotates relative to annular surface 24 d-3 of bearing 24. Housing 40′ rotates relative to bearing 24 and is rotatably coupled thereto as was discussed previously with respect to housing 40 and bearing 24.
As the housing 40′ is slidably engaging the barbed fingers 24 g-1, -2, -3, -4, an internal cylindrical peripheral surface 42′b-3 slidably engages the exterior surfaces of collet-like members 30′-1, -2, -3 and -4. Interaction between these two sets of surfaces deflects the collet-like members 30′-1, -2, -3, -4 radially inwardly as the surface 42′b-3 slides therealong.
The surface 42′b-3 slides onto exterior cylindrical surface 31-1 and is trapped by radially extending flange 31-2 and barbs 30′-1 a, -1 b which move outwardly radially once the surface 42′b-3 abuts flange 31-2. The interaction between the surface 31-1, the radially extending flanges 31-2 and 31-3, the barbs 30′-1 a, -1 b along with surface 42′b 3 attach the torque lock 30′ to the housing 40′ axially and also radially to prevent rotation therebetween.
FIGS. 15A-15E illustrate various views of nose cone 20 d′ which is threadably attached to housing 40′. Nose cone 20 d′ also includes a radial slot 20 d′-1 for receipt of a sealing O ring.
FIG. 16 illustrates additional details of the assemblage incorporating torque lock 30′, housing 40′, nose cone 20 d′. In FIG. 16, the insert 20 b is locked to torque lock 30 by radial clamping members 34 b′, c′. Housing 40 is in turn rotatably coupled to rotary bearing 24 and is locked to torque lock 30′, region 31-1.
From the foregoing, it will be observed that numerous variations and modifications may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is to be understood that no limitation with respect to the specific apparatus illustrated herein is intended or should be inferred. It is, of course, intended to cover by the appended claims all such modifications as fall within the scope of the claims.

What is claimed is: 
 
1. An ultrasonic dental instrument grippable by an operator comprising:
a handpiece; and 
an ultrasonic insert with a treatment applying tip, where the insert is carried by the handpiece, and, where the tip is rotatable relative to the handpiece by a force applied only to a portion of the insert, where the insert includes a torque lock with a plurality of radially movable prongs, a hollow, generally cylindrical bearing member rotatably latched to the insert wherein the cylindrical bearing member slidably engages the handpiece, wherein the insert is releasibly coupled for axial insertion into and removal from the handpiece, and wherein the insert carries a user comfortable, deformable, elastomeric member whereby the user can rotate the tip relative to the handpiece. 

  
2. An instrument as in claim 1 wherein the tip is rotatable through an arc on the order of at least two hundred seventy degrees.

  
3. An ultrasonic dental instrument grippable by an operator comprising:
a handpiece; and 
an ultrasonic insert with a treatment applying tip, and a user comfortable, deformable, elastomeric member, the insert is carried by the handpiece, and, wherein the tip is rotatable relative to the handpiece by a force applied only to a portion of the insert, the insert includes a torque lock with a plurality of radially movable prongs, the insert is releasibly coupled for axial insertion into and removal from the handpiece, wherein the insert includes an elongated body with an end coupled to the tip and a torque transferring cylinder coupled between a portion of body and the elastomeric member whereby the cylinder is mechanically locked to the body by the torque lock such that a rotary force applied to the elastomeric member establishes a torque for rotating the body. 

  
4. An instrument as in claim 3 wherein the cylinder is coupled to the body at a region of minimal axial ultrasonic vibration.

  
5. An instrument as in claim 3 which includes a cylindrical bearing which is slidably locked to the handpiece in which the torque transferring cylinder rotates.

  
6. An instrument as in claim 3 which includes a rotary bearing positioned adjacent to the elastomeric member whereby the tip and the elastomeric member are rotatable together relative to the handpiece.

  
7. An instrument as in claim 6 wherein the bearing has an end located adjacent to a region of minimal axial ultrasonic vibration of the insert.

  
8. An instrument as in claim 3 which includes an elastomeric handle wherein the elastomeric handle comprises silicone.

  
9. An ultrasonic dental instrument grippable by an operator comprising:
a handpiece; and 
an ultrasonic insert with a treatment applying tip, and a user comfortable, deformable, elastomeric member wherein the insert is carried by the handpiece, and, wherein the tip is rotatable relative to the handpiece by a force applied only to a portion of the insert wherein the insert includes a torque lock with a plurality of radially movable prongs, the insert is releasibly coupled for axial insertion into and removal from the handpiece, and which includes a rotary bearing positioned adjacent to the elastomeric member whereby the tip and the elastomeric member are rotatably decoupled from and are rotatable together relative to the handpiece. 

  
10. An instrument as in claim 9 wherein the bearing is located at least in part, adjacent to a region of minimal axial ultrasonic vibration.

  
11. An instrument as in claim 9 wherein the tip is rotatable through an arc on the order of at least two hundred seventy degrees.

  
12. An instrument as in claim 9 wherein the elastomeric member comprises silicone.

  
13. An ultrasonic dental instrument grippable by an operator comprising:
a handpiece; and 
an ultrasonic insert with a treatment applying tip, wherein the insert is carried by the handpiece, and, wherein the tip is rotatable relative to the handpiece by a force applied only to a portion of the insert wherein the insert includes a torque lock with a plurality of radially movable prongs, and 
a hollow, generally cylindrical bearing member rotatably latched to the insert wherein the cylindrical bearing member slidably engages the handpiece. 

  
14. An instrument as in claim 13 which includes a deformable gripping handle locked to the insert.

  
15. An instrument as in claim 14 wherein the grippable member is carried by an element which slidably engages a region of the insert exhibiting minimal vibration.

  
16. An instrument as in claim 15 wherein the element has first and second sections wherein one section lockingly engages a slot in the minimal vibration region of the body.

  
17. An instrument as in claim 16 wherein the second section engages the first section with an interference fit.

  
18. An instrument as in claim 17 wherein the second section has a cylindrical external periphery and carries the deformable gripping handle thereon.

  
19. An instrument as in claim 13 wherein the insert defines a slot thereon and wherein the cylindrical bearing member is located adjacent to the slot with the torque lock located therebetween.

  
20. An instrument as in claim 19 which carries a cylindrical user handle, deformable at least in part, wherein an end of the handle is adjacent to an end of the cylindrical bearing member.

  
21. An instrument as in claim 19 wherein the slot is located on the insert at a region of minimal axial ultrasonic vibration.

  
22. An instrument as in claim 21 which carries a cylindrical user handle wherein a portion of the torque lock lockingly engages the slot and wherein the bearing member is thereby blocked from axial movement relative to the insert.

  
23. An instrument as in claim 22 wherein a portion of the handpiece slidably engages the bearing member.

  
24. A method of assembling an ultrasonic insert comprising:
providing a body portion having a proximal end and a distal end wherein the distal end carries an operating member, the proximal end carries a transducer; 
sliding a rotary bearing member over and past the operating member to a location, at least in part, in the vicinity of the proximal end; 
sliding a locking member over and past the operating member toward the bearing member and clamping the locking member to the body portion at a region of minimal axial ultrasonically induced vibration thereby blocking axial movement of the bearing member along the body; 
sliding a handle over and past the operating member and coupling the handle to the locking member whereby the handle is blocked from any axial movement relative to the body. 

  
25. A method as in clam 24 which includes, in the clamping step, positioning the locating member to, at least in part, slidably engage a slot on the body.

  
26. An ultrasonic dental instrument comprising:
an ultrasonic insert with a treatment applying tip; and 
a bearing positioned on the insert, the bearing has first and second sections with one section latched to the insert at least in part by a torque lock with a plurality of radially movable prongs, the other section is rotatable relative to the insert. 

  
27. An instrument as in claim 26 where the insert is axially insertable into and removable from a separate handpiece.

  
28. An instrument as in claim 27 where the insert carries a user comfortable, deformable, elastomeric member whereby the user can rotate the tip relative to the handpiece.

  
29. An instrument as in claim 27 wherein the insert defines a slot thereon and where the bearing is located, at least in part, adjacent to the slot with the torque lock located therebetween.

  
30. An instrument as in claim 29 wherein the slot is located on the insert at a region of minimal axial ultrasonic vibration.

  
31. An instrument as in claim 29 which carries a cylindrical user handle where a portion of the torque lock lockingly engages the slot and where the bearing is thereby blocked from axial movement relative to the insert.

  
32. An instrument as in claim 31 where a portion of the bearing carries a circular seal.

  
33. An instrument as in claim 26 where the torque lock is coupled to the insert at a region of minimal axial ultrasonic vibration.

  
34. An instrument as in claim 33 where the bearing is located at least in part, adjacent to a region of minimal axial ultrasonic vibration.

  
35. An instrument as in claim 33 where the bearing is a two-part cylindrical bearing which is located at least in part, adjacent to a region of minimal axial ultrasonic vibration.