Source: [US6999516B1](https://patents.google.com/patent/US6999516B1)

# [US6999516B1](US6999516B1.md) - [US6999516B1](US6999516B1.md) - Technique for emulating differential signaling

## Details

* Date: 2001-10-24
* Inventor: Rambus Inc
* Beneficiary: Suresh Rajan

## Other patents

### Backwards
 * US5740201A
 * US6137455A
 * US6154498A
 * [US6278740B1](US6278740B1.md)
### Forward
 * US20050263782A1
 * US20060115004A1
 * US20080048730A1
 * WO2009055146A1
 * WO2009086078A1
 * US20100040169A1
 * EP2208327A2
 * US8649445B2
 * US8878592B2
 * US9015566B2
 * US9077386B1
 * US9083576B1
 * US9106220B2
 * US9112550B1
 * US9124557B2
 * US9148087B1
 * US9203402B1
 * US9246713B2
 * US9251873B1
 * US9258154B2
 * US9268683B1
 * US9275720B2
 * [US9288082B1](US9288082B1.md)
 * US9288089B2
 * US9300503B1
 * US9362962B2
 * US9362947B2
 * US9363114B2
 * US9369312B1
 * US9401828B2
 * US9419828B2
 * US9432082B2
 * US9444654B2
 * [US9450744B2](US9450744B2.md)
 * US9461862B2
 * US9479369B1
 * US9509437B2
 * [US9557760B1](US9557760B1.md)
 * US9564994B2
 * [US9577815B1](US9577815B1.md)
 * US9596109B2
 * US9667379B2
 * US9674014B2
 * US9806761B1
 * [US9832046B2](US9832046B2.md)
 * US9852806B2
 * US9900186B2
 * [US9906358B1](US9906358B1.md)
 * US9985634B2
 * [US9985745B2](US9985745B2.md)
 * [US10003315B2](US10003315B2.md)
 * [US10003454B2](US10003454B2.md)
 * US10055372B2
 * [US10056903B2](US10056903B2.md)
 * [US10057049B2](US10057049B2.md)
 * [US10091035B2](US10091035B2.md)
 * [US10116468B1](US10116468B1.md)
 * [US10153591B2](US10153591B2.md)
 * [US10200188B2](US10200188B2.md)
 * [US10200218B2](US10200218B2.md)
 * US10203226B1
 * [US10277431B2](US10277431B2.md)
 * [US10326623B1](US10326623B1.md)
 * [US10333741B2](US10333741B2.md)
 * [US10372665B2](US10372665B2.md)
 * [US10467177B2](US10467177B2.md)
 * [US10554380B2](US10554380B2.md)
 * US10666297B2
## Abstract

Abstract

A technique for emulating differential signaling is disclosed. In one exemplary embodiment, the technique is realized by encoding a plurality of input signals so as to generate a plurality of encoded signals having a spatial run length of N, wherein N is an integer having a value of at least two. Each of the plurality of encoded signals is then transmitted over a transmission medium so as to provide a respective plurality of transmitted encoded signals. Each of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals is then compared with at least N neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals so as to recover a representation of each of the plurality of encoded signals. Each of the plurality of recovered encoded signals is then decoded so as to generate a plurality of decoded signals representing the plurality of input signals.



A technique for emulating differential signaling is disclosed. In one exemplary embodiment, the technique is realized by encoding a plurality of input signals so as to generate a plurality of encoded signals having a spatial run length of N, wherein N is an integer having a value of at least two. Each of the plurality of encoded signals is then transmitted over a transmission medium so as to provide a respective plurality of transmitted encoded signals. Each of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals is then compared with at least N neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals so as to recover a representation of each of the plurality of encoded signals. Each of the plurality of recovered encoded signals is then decoded so as to generate a plurality of decoded signals representing the plurality of input signals.

FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates generally to signal transmission techniques and, more particularly, to a technique for emulating differential signaling.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Differential signaling has many advantages over single ended signaling: smaller signal swing, increased noise immunity, constant output drive current (i.e., di/dt=0 for output drive circuitry), and pattern independent propagation delay (i.e., tpd not pattern dependent). However, differential signaling requires a larger number of signal pins (˜1.5× to 2×) than single ended signaling. This increased signal pin count needed for differential signaling becomes an issue with integrated circuits (IC's) that have a very wide input/output (I/O) interface. For example, memory controllers that have a 128-bit wide data interface to memory devices may require an additional 128 signal pins to implement full differential signaling. Thus, for IC's with a large number of data/address signal pins, differential signaling may be prohibitive in terms of signal pin count, packaging size, and cost.
In view of the foregoing, it would be desirable to provide a technique for obtaining some of the above-described advantages of differential signaling without realizing the above-described disadvantages associated with differential signaling.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
According to the present invention, a technique for emulating differential signaling is provided. In one exemplary embodiment, the technique is realized by encoding a plurality of input signals so as to generate a plurality of encoded signals having a spatial run length of N, wherein N is an integer having a value of at least two. Each of the plurality of encoded signals is then transmitted over a transmission medium so as to provide a respective plurality of transmitted encoded signals. Each of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals is then compared with at least N neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals so as to recover a representation of each of the plurality of encoded signals. Each of the plurality of recovered encoded signals is then decoded so as to generate a plurality of decoded signals representing the plurality of input signals.
In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment of the present invention, the plurality of encoded signals are transformed into the plurality of transmitted encoded signals when transmitted over the transmission medium. For example, this transformation may occur as a result of a driver driving the plurality of encoded signals onto a bus, and thereby adjusting the voltage level of one or more of the plurality of encoded signals, adjusting the current level of one or more of the plurality of encoded signals, or adjusting the timing of one or more of the plurality of encoded signals. Additionally, this transformation may occur as a result of one or more of: external noise, signal crosstalk, attenuation, and transmission line reflections.
In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment of the present invention, the N neighboring transmitted encoded signals which are nearest in spatial proximity to the encoded signal to be recovered may be determined by measuring spatial proximity where the plurality of input signals are encoded, along the transmission medium, and/or where the each of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals is compared.
In accordance with still further aspects of this particular embodiment of the present invention, the plurality of decoded signals represent the plurality of input signals by maintaining consistent logic values between the plurality of input signals and the plurality of decoded signals.
In accordance with still further aspects of this particular embodiment of the present invention, each of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals is preferably compared with two neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals so as to recover a representation of each of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals.
In another exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the technique is realized as an improved method for encoding a plurality of input signals, wherein the improvement comprises encoding the plurality of input signals so as to generate a plurality of encoded signals having a spatial run length of at least two, wherein each particular one of the plurality of encoded signals has at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals such that at least one of the at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals is of a different polarity than the particular one encoded signal.
In still another exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the technique is realized as an improved method for recovering a plurality of encoded signals, wherein the plurality of encoded signals have a spatial run length of at least two, and wherein each particular one of the plurality of encoded signals has at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals such that at least one of the at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals is of a different polarity than the particular one encoded signal. The improvement comprises comparing each of the plurality of encoded signals with its at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals, such that each of the plurality of encoded signals is compared with the at least one of the at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals having the different polarity, thereby improving recovery of each of the plurality of encoded signals.
The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof as shown in the appended drawings. While the present invention is described below with reference to preferred embodiments, it should be understood that the present invention is not limited thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations, modifications, and embodiments, as well as other fields of use, which are within the scope of the present invention as disclosed and claimed herein, and with respect to which the present invention could be of significant utility.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
In order to facilitate a fuller understanding of the present invention, reference is now made to the appended drawings. These drawings should not be construed as limiting the present invention, but are intended to be exemplary only.
 FIG. 1 shows a system for emulating differential signaling in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 2 shows example input and output code listings for the encoder shown in FIG. 1.
 FIG. 3 shows a schematic diagram of an example circuit of one of the plurality of three-bit comparators shown in FIG. 1.
 FIG. 4 shows a truth table for the example circuit shown in FIG. 3.
 FIG. 5 shows a mapping between input patterns (codes) and output patterns (codes) for the four-bit to five-bit encoder shown in FIG. 1.
 FIG. 6 shows a schematic diagram of circuitry for an encoder for realizing the mapping shown in FIG. 5.
 FIG. 7 shows a mapping between input patterns (codes) and output patterns (codes) for the five-bit to four-bit decoder shown in FIG. 1.
 FIG. 8 shows a schematic diagram of circuitry for a decoder for realizing the mapping shown in FIG. 7.
 FIG. 9 shows a mapping between input bit patterns (codes) and output bit patterns (codes) for a four-bit to five-bit encoder supporting a spatial run length of three in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 10 shows a generic N+1 bit comparator for use in systems employing encoders supporting 5-bit output bit patterns (codes) having a spatial run lengths of N in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 11 is a table showing the sets of spatially adjacent neighbors for a spatial run length of two and a spatial run length of three for 5-bit output patterns (codes) in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 12 shows a mapping between input patterns (codes) and output patterns (codes) for a four-bit to six-bit encoder for a spatial run length of two in accordance with the present invention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENT(S)
Referring to FIG. 1, there is shown a system 10 for emulating differential signaling in accordance with the present invention. The system 10 emulates differential signaling in accordance with the present invention by obtaining at least some of the above-described advantages of differential signaling without actually generating traditional differential signals and thereby realizing the above-described disadvantages associated with differential signaling. The system 10 comprises a transmitter 12 and a receiver 14 interconnected by a plurality of electrically conductive signal paths 16.
At this point it should be noted that the system 10 may be encompassed within a single integrated circuit, or formed with several integrated or discrete circuits. For example, the transmitter 12 and the receiver 14 could each be an integrated circuit, and the plurality of electrically conductive signal paths 16 could be a plurality of transmission lines. More particularly, the transmitter 12 could be an integrated circuit central processing unit (CPU) device and the receiver 14 could be an integrated circuit memory controller device. Alternatively, either one or both of the transmitter 12 and the receiver 14 could be application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) devices. Alternatively still, the transmitter 12 could be an integrated circuit memory controller device (e.g., a double data rate (DDR) memory controller) and the receiver 14 could be an integrated circuit memory device (e.g., a DDR dynamic random access memory (DRAM)).
Referring again to FIG. 1, the transmitter 12 includes an encoder 18 for encoding a plurality of single ended input signals 20. Based upon each unique bit pattern of the plurality of single ended input signals 20, the encoder 18 generates a plurality of encoded output signals 22 having a respective unique output bit pattern. The encoder 18 is designed such that all of the output bit patterns have a spatial run length of two. That is, no more than two spatially adjacent bits in each of the output bit patterns can be of the same polarity. Thus, in the binary system 10 of FIG. 1, no more than two spatially adjacent bits in the output bit patterns formed by the plurality of encoded output signals 22 can be logic zero or logic one. Also, in the system 10 of FIG. 1, the plurality of single ended input signals 20 includes four single ended input signals (i.e., A, B, C, and D), and the plurality of encoded output signals 22 includes five encoded output signals (i.e., a, b, c, d, and e). Thus, in the system 10 of FIG. 1, the encoder 18 is a four-bit (4B) to five-bit (5B) encoder.
Referring to FIG. 2, there are shown example input and output code listings for the encoder 18 of FIG. 1. On the left side of FIG. 2, there is shown a listing of all possible input bit patterns (codes) for the plurality of single ended input signals 20 (i.e., input signals A, B, C, and D). On the right side of FIG. 2, there is shown a listing of all possible output bit patterns (codes) for the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e). For each of the output bit patterns (codes), there are no more than two spatially adjacent bits of the same polarity (i.e., all of the output bit patterns (codes) have a spatial run length of two). It should be noted that the listings of input and output codes shown in FIG. 2 are in no particular order (i.e., the input and output code listings orders may not reflect the actual mapping between the input and output codes).
Referring back to FIG. 1, the transmitter 12 has a plurality of line drivers 24 for transmitting the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e) onto the corresponding plurality of electrically conductive signal paths 16. The plurality of transmitted encoded output signals 26 (i.e., transmitted encoded output signals a′, b′, c′, d′, and e′) are received at the receiver 14.
The plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e) that are transmitted onto the corresponding plurality of electrically conductive signal paths 16 are typically transformed in some manner to produce the plurality of transmitted encoded output signals 26 (i.e., transmitted encoded output signals a′, b′, c′, d′, and e′). For example, the plurality of line drivers 24 may transform the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e) by adjusting the voltage level of one or more of the plurality of encoded output signals 22, adjusting the current level of one or more of the plurality of encoded output signals 22, and/or adjusting the timing of one or more of the plurality of encoded output signals 22. Also, the plurality of electrically conductive signal paths 16 could be a data bus for carrying the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e) in close proximity. In such a case, the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e) that are transmitted onto the data bus could be transformed due to external noise, signal crosstalk, attenuation, and/or transmission line reflections associated with the data bus. In any case, the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e) are transformed in some manner into the plurality of transmitted encoded output signals 26 (i.e., transmitted encoded output signals a′, b′, c′, d′, and e′) so as to require recovery of the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e) at the receiver 14.
The receiver 14 includes a plurality of three-bit comparators 28 for recovering each of the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoded output signals a, b, c, d, and e) from the plurality of transmitted encoded output signals 26 (i.e., transmitted encoded output signals a′, b′, c′, d′, and e′) that are received at the receiver 14. Each three-bit comparator 28 operates to recover a respective one of the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoded output signals a, b, c, d, or e) by comparing a respective one of the plurality of transmitted encoded output signals 26 (e.g., transmitted encoded output signal b′) with its two nearest neighboring transmitted encoded output signals 26 (e.g., transmitted encoded output signals a′ and c′). Since, as described above, no more than two spatially adjacent bits in each of the output bit patterns can be of the same polarity, at least one of the neighboring bits will have a different polarity from the bit being recovered. That is, if the bit to be recovered is a logic zero, then at least one of the neighboring bits will be a logic one, and vice versa. Thus, each three-bit comparator 28 compares a respective one of the plurality of transmitted encoded output signals 26 (e.g., transmitted encoded output signal b′) with at least one neighboring transmitted encoded output signal 26 (e.g., transmitted encoded output signals a′, or c′) of opposite polarity so as to recover a respective one of the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (e.g., encoded output signal b).
At this point it should be noted that the point at which neighboring bits are measured to determine which neighboring bits are in fact spatially adjacent neighboring bits may be at the transmitter 12, the plurality of electrically conductive signal paths 16, and/or the receiver 14.
Referring to FIG. 3, there is shown a schematic diagram of an example circuit of one of the plurality of three-bit comparators 28. The circuit comprises a plurality of PMOS transistors 30, a plurality of NMOS transistors 32, a pair of constant current devices 34, and an inverting output driver 36. FIG. 4 shows a truth table for the circuit shown in FIG. 3. As can be seen from the truth table of FIG. 4, the three-bit comparator 28 recovers an encoded output signal 22 by comparing a corresponding transmitted encoded output signal 26 (i.e., circuit input X) with its two nearest neighboring transmitted encoded output signals (i.e., circuit inputs Y1 and Y2), at least one of which is always of a different polarity from the transmitted encoded output signal 26 being recovered.
Referring back to FIG. 1, the receiver 14 also includes a decoder 38 for decoding the plurality of recovered encoded output signals 22′ (i.e., recovered encoded output signals a, b, c, d, and e). The decoder 38 operates similar to the encoder 18, but in reverse. That is, based upon each unique bit pattern of the plurality of recovered encoded output signals 22′ (i.e., recovered encoded output signals a, b, c, d, and e), the decoder 38 generates a plurality of decoded single ended output signals 20′ (i.e., decoded output signals A, B, C, and D) having a respective unique output bit pattern which matches the bit pattern of the original plurality of single ended input signals (i.e., input signals A, B, C, and D). In the system 10 of FIG. 1, the plurality of recovered encoded output signals 22′ includes five recovered encoded output signals (i.e., recovered encoded output signals a, b, c, d, and e), and the plurality of decoded single ended output signals 20′ includes four decoded single ended output signals (i.e., A, B, C, and D). Thus, in the system 10 of FIG. 1, the decoder 38 is a five-bit (5 B) to four-bit (4B) decoder.
At this point it should be noted that there are several possible implementations of the encoder 18 and the decoder 38, depending upon the particular mapping selected between input and output codes. For example, FIG. 5 shows one particular mapping between input patterns (codes) and output patterns (codes) for the four-bit to five-bit encoder 18. On the left side of FIG. 5, there is shown a listing of all possible input bit patterns (codes) for the plurality of single ended input signals 20 (i.e., input signals A, B, C, and D). On the right side of FIG. 5, there is shown a particular listing of corresponding output bit patterns (codes) for the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e). As with the output bit patterns (codes) of FIG. 2, for each of the output bit patterns (codes) of FIG. 5, there are no more than two spatially adjacent bits of the same polarity (i.e., all of the output bit patterns (codes) have a spatial run length of two).
Referring to FIG. 6, there is shown a schematic diagram of circuitry for the encoder 18 for realizing the mapping shown in FIG. 5. The encoder circuitry of FIG. 6 comprises a plurality of buffers 40, a plurality of AND gates 42, a plurality of NOR gates 44, a plurality of exclusive OR gates 46, and an OR gate 48 for performing the encoding operation in the encoder 18. It should be noted that the buffers 40 are provided primarily for matching propagation delay times of other encoder circuitry (i.e., the logic circuitry).
Referring to FIG. 7, there is shown a mapping between input patterns (codes) and output patterns (codes) for the five-bit to four-bit decoder 38. The mapping shown in FIG. 7 corresponds to the mapping shown in FIG. 5, only in reverse. On the left side of FIG. 7, there is shown a listing of all possible input bit patterns (codes) for the plurality of recovered encoded output signals 22′ (i.e., recovered encoded output signals a, b, c, d, and e). This listing of all possible input bit patterns (codes) for the plurality of recovered encoded output signals 22′ (i.e., recovered encoded output signals a, b, c, d, and e) matches the particular listing of corresponding output bit patterns (codes) for the plurality of encoded output signals 22 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e) in FIG. 5. Thus, as with the output bit patterns (codes) of FIG. 5, for each of the input bit patterns (codes) of FIG. 7, there are no more than two spatially adjacent bits of the same polarity (i.e., all of the input bit patterns (codes) have a spatial run length of two).
On the right side of FIG. 7, there is shown a particular listing of corresponding output bit patterns (codes) for the plurality of decoded single ended output signals 20′ (i.e., output signals A, B, C, and D). This listing of corresponding output bit patterns (codes) for the plurality of decoded single ended output signals 20′ (i.e., output signals A, B, C, and D) matches the listing of all possible input bit patterns (codes) for the plurality of single ended input signals 20 (i.e., input signals A, B, C, and D) in FIG. 5.
Referring to FIG. 8, there is shown a schematic diagram of circuitry for the decoder 38 for realizing the mapping shown in FIG. 7. The decoder circuitry of FIG. 8 comprises a plurality of buffers 50, a plurality of NOR gates 52, and a plurality of exclusive OR gates 54 for performing the decoding operation in the decoder 38. It should be noted that, as with the buffers 40 in the encoder circuitry of FIG. 6, the buffers 50 in the decoder circuitry of FIG. 8 are provided primarily for matching propagation delay times of other decoder circuitry (i.e., the logic circuitry).
At this point it should be noted that, although the encoder 18 and decoder 38 have been described above as only supporting a spatial run length of two, the present invention also contemplates encoders and decoders supporting spatial run lengths of other values. For example, referring to FIG. 9, there is shown a four-bit to five-bit encoder 90 for supporting output bit patterns (codes) having a spatial run length of three (i.e., no more than three spatially adjacent bits in each of the output bit patterns (codes) can be of the same polarity). On the left side of FIG. 9, there is shown a listing of all possible input bit patterns (codes) for a plurality of single ended input signals 92 (i.e., input signals A, B, C, and D). On the right side of FIG. 9, there is shown a listing of all possible output bit patterns (codes) for a plurality of encoded output signals 94 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e).
Since the four-bit to five-bit encoder 90 supports output bit patterns having a spatial run length of three, one or more corresponding comparators supporting output bit patterns having a spatial run length of three are required to recover the plurality of encoded output signals 94 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, and e). Referring to FIG. 10, there is shown a generic N+1 bit comparator 100 for use in systems employing encoders supporting 5-bit output bit patterns (codes) having a spatial run lengths of N (i.e., no more than N spatially adjacent bits in each of the bit patterns (codes) can be of the same polarity). For example, in the case of a system employing an encoder supporting a 5-bit output bit pattern (codes) having a spatial run length of two (i.e., no more than two spatially adjacent bits in each of the bit patterns (codes) can be of the same polarity) (e.g., system 10 of FIG. 1), the comparator 100 is similar to the 3-bit comparator 28 of FIGS. 1 and 3. In the case of a system employing the encoder 90, which supports a 5-bit output bit pattern (codes) having a spatial run length of three (i.e., no more than three spatially adjacent bits in each of the bit patterns (codes) can be of the same polarity), the comparator 100 is a 4-bit comparator. In either case, similar to the comparator 28 of FIG. 1, the signal to be recovered is connected to the “X” input of the comparator 100, and the signal's N spatially adjacent neighbors are connected to inputs “Y1” through “YN” of the comparator 100.
At this point it should be noted that in the case of a spatial run length (SRL) of two, each signal to be recovered has only one set of two spatially adjacent neighbors. However, in the case of a spatial run length of three, some signals to be recovered have two possible sets of three spatially adjacent neighbors while other signals to be recovered have only one set of three spatially adjacent neighbors. This is illustrated in the table of FIG. 11 for encoder 90 of FIG. 9 and the comparator 100 of FIG. 10. To accommodate the case of a spatial run length of three, the sets of spatially adjacent neighbors assigned to each signal to be recovered are typically predetermined.
At this point it should be noted that, in the case of a spatial run length of N, while it is preferred to have the comparator 100 perform a comparison between the signal to be recovered and N spatially adjacent neighbors of the signal to be recovered, it is also possible to have the comparator 100 perform a comparison between the signal to be recovered and N+Q spatially adjacent neighbors of the signal to be recovered, wherein Q is some integer value. This latter possibility is not preferred since it often adversely affects the signal to noise ratio of the comparator 100. That is, comparing a signal to be recovered with more than N spatially adjacent neighbors of the signal to be recovered will in the best case improve the signal to noise ratio, but in other cases will decrease the signal to noise ratio.
At this point it should be noted that, although only four-bit to five-bit encoders 18 and 90 and a five-bit to four-bit decoder 38 have been described above, the present invention also contemplates other-sized encoder and decoder schemes. For example, referring to FIG. 12, there is shown one particular mapping between input patterns (codes) and output patterns (codes) for a four-bit to six-bit encoder 56. On the left side of FIG. 12, there is shown a listing of all possible input bit patterns (codes) for a plurality of single ended input signals 58 (i.e., input signals A, B, C, and D). On the right side of FIG. 12, there is shown a listing of corresponding output bit patterns (codes) for a plurality of encoded output signals 60 (i.e., encoder output signals a, b, c, d, e, and f).
As with the output bit patterns (codes) of FIGS. 2 and 5, for each of the output bit patterns (codes) of FIG. 12, there are no more than two spatially adjacent bits of the same polarity (all of the output bit patterns (codes) have a spatial run length of two). However, since the encoder 56 generates six-bit output patterns (codes), the encoder 56 may be designed such that all of the output bit patterns (codes) have a spatial run length of three. That is, the encoder 56 may be designed such that no more than three spatially adjacent bits in each of the output bit patterns (codes) can be of the same polarity. Since this adds additional complexity to a corresponding comparator, an encoder design having a spatial run length of two is generally preferred.
Also, it should be noted that the encoder 56 of FIG. 12 is not as efficient as the encoder 18 of FIGS. 2 and 5. That is, the extra encoded output signal (i.e., encoder output signal f in the plurality of encoded output signals 60) requires an additional signal pin on the encoder 56 (and on a corresponding decoder), as well as additional electrically conductive signal path for routing the extra encoded output signal (i.e., encoder output signal f in the plurality of encoded output signals 60) from the encoder 56 to a corresponding decoder.
Despite the above-described additional complexity and comparative inefficiency of the encoder 56 of FIG. 9, it should be noted that the four-bit to six-bit encoder 56 does have one advantage over the four-bit to five-bit encoder 18. That is, the encoder 56 may be designed such that the number of logic zeros and the number of logic ones are substantially equal in each of the output bit patterns (codes). Such an encoding scheme insures that the output drive current in the transmitter including the encoder 56 is substantially constant with respect to time.
At this point it should be noted that an important aspect of the present invention technique is that a one half reduction in the input signal voltage at the receiver 14 is achieved. That is, in a single-ended signaling scheme, an input signal is compared against a reference, while in a differential signaling scheme, the input signal is compared against its complement. Consequently, the signal amplitude needed for differential signaling is half of the signal amplitude needed for single-ended signaling. Thus, since the present invention technique emulates differential signaling, a one half reduction in the input signal voltage at the receiver 14 is achieved.
Another important aspect of the present invention is the use of the present invention technique in multilevel signaling systems (i.e., systems utilizing more than two signal levels). That is, it is within the scope of the present invention to use the present invention technique in multilevel signaling systems, and it would be well within the purview of one skilled in the art to incorporate the teachings herein described into such a multilevel signaling system.
In view of the foregoing, it is apparent that the present invention technique allows for an increase in the frequency of operation, and the noise margin, of a chip-to-chip signaling link with only an 1.25× increase in the number of signal pins and some additional logic circuitry (i.e., in the case of a four-bit to five-bit encoding scheme and a five-bit to four-bit decoding scheme). Compared to a 1.5× to 2× increase in the number of signal pins with differential signaling, the present invention technique provides a significant benefit.
The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed, various modifications of the present invention, in addition to those described herein, will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus, such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the following appended claims. Further, although the present invention has been described herein in the context of a particular implementation in a particular environment for a particular purpose, those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present invention can be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly, the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breath and spirit of the present invention as disclosed herein.

1. A system for emulating differential signaling, the system comprising:
an encoder for encoding a plurality of input signals so as to generate a plurality of encoded signals having a spatial run length of N, wherein N is an integer having a value of at least two;
a transmission medium for transmitting the plurality of encoded signals from the encoder and thereby providing a respective plurality of transmitted encoded signals;
a plurality of comparators, each of the plurality of comparators for comparing a respective one of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals with at least N neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals so as to generate a respective one of a plurality of recovered encoded signals representing a respective one of the plurality of encoded signals, wherein the at least N neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals are the N neighboring transmitted encoded signals which are nearest in spatial proximity; and
a decoder for decoding the plurality of recovered encoded signals so as to generate a plurality of decoded signals representing the plurality of input signals.


  
2. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the plurality of encoded signals are transformed in the transmission medium to produce the plurality of transmitted encoded signals.

  
3. The system as defined in claim 2, wherein the transmission medium includes a bus for carrying the plurality of encoded signals in close proximity.

  
4. The system as defined in claim 3, wherein the transmission medium includes a plurality of drivers for driving the plurality of encoded signals onto the bus.

  
5. The system as defined in claim 4, wherein the plurality of drivers transform the plurality of encoded signals by one or more of: adjusting the voltage level of one or more of the plurality of encoded signals, adjusting the current level of one or more of the plurality of encoded signals, and adjusting the timing of one or more of the plurality of encoded signals.

  
6. The system as defined in claim 2, wherein at least a portion of the transformation from the plurality of encoded signals to the plurality of transmitted encoded signals occurs as a result of one or more of: external noise, signal crosstalk, attenuation, and transmission line reflections.

  
7. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of comparators includes a M-bit comparator for comparing the transmitted encoded signals, wherein M is greater than or equal to N+1.

  
8. The system as defined in claim 7, wherein M equals N+1.

  
9. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein no more than N spatially adjacent ones of the plurality of encoded signals may be of the same polarity.

  
10. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the spatial proximity is measured at one or more of: the encoder, the transmission medium, and the plurality of comparators.

  
11. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the plurality of decoded signals represent the plurality of input signals by maintaining consistent logic values between the plurality of input signals and the plurality of decoded signals.

  
12. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein N has a value of two and each of the plurality of comparators compares a respective one of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals with two neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals so as to generate a respective one of the plurality of recovered encoded signals representing a respective one of the plurality of encoded signals.

  
13. The system as defined in claim 12, wherein each of the plurality of comparators includes a three-bit comparator for comparing a respective one of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals with two neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals so as to generate a respective one of the plurality of recovered encoded signals representing a respective one of the plurality of encoded signals.

  
14. The system as defined in claim 13, wherein the two neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals are the two transmitted encoded signals that are nearest in spatial proximity to the encoded signal to be recovered.

  
15. The system as defined in claim 14, wherein the spatial proximity is measured at one or more of: the encoder, the transmission medium, and the plurality of comparators.

  
16. A method for emulating differential signaling, the method comprising the steps of:
encoding a plurality of input signals so as to generate a plurality of encoded signals having a spatial run length of N, wherein N is an integer having a value of at least two;
transmitting the plurality of encoded signals and thereby providing a respective plurality of transmitted encoded signals;
comparing each of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals with at least N neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals so as to generate a respective one of a plurality of recovered encoded signals representing a respective one of the plurality of encoded signals, wherein the at least N neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals are the N neighboring transmitted encoded signals which are nearest in spatial proximity; and
decoding the plurality of recovered encoded signals so as to generate a plurality of decoded signals representing the plurality of input signals.


  
17. The method as defined in claim 16, wherein the step of transmitting includes the step of transforming the plurality of encoded signals so as to provide the plurality of transmitted encoded signals.

  
18. The method as defined in claim 17, wherein the step of transmitting also includes the step of driving the plurality of encoded signals onto a bus.

  
19. The method as defined in claim 18, wherein the step of transmitting further includes one or more of the steps of:
adjusting the voltage level of one or more of the plurality of encoded signals;
adjusting the current level of one or more of the plurality of encoded signals; and
adjusting the timing of one or more of the plurality of encoded signals.


  
20. The method as defined in claim 17, wherein the step of transmitting also includes the step of transforming the plurality of encoded signals to the plurality of transmitted encoded signals as a result of one or more of: external noise, signal crosstalk, attenuation, and transmission line reflections.

  
21. The method as defined in claim 16, further comprising the step of:
determining the N neighboring transmitted encoded signals which are nearest in spatial proximity.


  
22. The method as defined in claim 21, wherein the plurality of decoded signals represent the plurality of input signals by maintaining consistent logic values between the plurality of input signals and the plurality of decoded signals.

  
23. The method as defined in claim 16, wherein N has a value of two, and wherein the step of comparing includes comparing a respective one of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals with two neighboring others of the plurality of transmitted encoded signals so as to generate a respective one of the plurality of recovered encoded signals representing a respective one of the plurality of encoded signals.

  
24. An improved method for encoding a plurality of input signals, the improvement comprising the step of:
encoding the plurality of input signals so as to generate a plurality of encoded signals having a spatial run length of at least two, wherein each particular one of the plurality of encoded signals has at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals such that at least one of the at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals is of a different polarity than the particular one encoded signal.


  
25. An improved method for recovering a plurality of encoded signals, wherein the plurality of encoded signals have a spatial run length of at least two, wherein each particular one of the plurality of encoded signals has at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals such that at least one of the at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals is of a different polarity than the particular one encoded signal, the improvement comprising the step of:
comparing each of the plurality of encoded signals with its at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals, such that each of the plurality of encoded signals is compared with the at least one of the at least two neighboring others of the plurality of encoded signals having the different polarity, thereby improving recovery of each of the plurality of encoded signals.